Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3730-some-people-like-to-try-new-things-for-example-places-to-visit",
Essay 1:
	We can broadly categorise people into two main segments: the first segment of people are comfortable with living in the same place, eating the same types of food, having a career that involves pretty much doing the same thing and taking almost no risks, while others are completely the opposite who find the meaning of life through risks and challenges and are not afraid of trying new things. Personally, I like to take risks, face challenges and enjoy the diversity of the world through travelling and favour the second group of people.
	People who avoid challenges or scarcely try new things are comfortable with the lifestyle they already have. They do not want to make life complicated by taking on new challenges that might bring misery or dissatisfaction to their life. Such people are often contended with whatever they have and wish to stay in their comfort zone. Since they are afraid of failure, their success is also limited. We can see many people around us who fall in this category, who, despite seeing potential in a new career, never dare to change their existing job or even detest the idea of trying new food.
	On the other hand, there are people who believe that change is constant and that taking on challenges is something that makes life thrilling and enjoyable. They embrace new ideas, travel to difficult places, try new food, experience diversity of life and culture, and get easily bored doing the same thing for a long. These people take risks that bring success. But such success is not always guaranteed as failure can also befall them. I also know such people, and I consider myself one of them. They are often the trailblazer and inventors, builders and creators of new things and ideas. For instance, despite having a good job in a multinational company, one of my cousins started a boutique business. No one initially supported his move, but now he is so successful that many others cite him as an example of success.
	In conclusion, being in the comfort zone, doing familiar things and taking minimal risks may guarantee comfort and stability in life but real success and great inventions and ideas come from taking risks and embracing challenges. I am always in favour of the second type of attitude that makes life worth living.
Essay 2:
	Some people always yearn for new experiences in life and are never afraid to try new things. Others, on the contrary,  are happy doing the same thing and living in the same place all through their life primarily because they do not like changes. This essay will discuss both these attitudes. Personally, I believe that people who embrace changes and dare to try new things live life to the fullest.
	People who try new things are often risk-takers and adventure seekers. They believe that life is a constant journey, and they often have an unquenchable thirst to visit as many places as they can, try as many dishes as they come across, take part in numerous adventurous activities and try different career paths in their life. Such people take risks in their personal and professional life. This is why they are either hugely successful or live a nomadic life. For instance, one of my university friends started travelling when all others were busy looking for a job. Due to this, he was struggling financially while others were stable in their jobs and earnings. However, after ten years of our graduation, this friend, who is also a famous travel blogger on YouTube and an investigative journalist, earns at least 10 times higher than any of us. This success is not always assured but comes to those who embrace non-traditional life and try new things.
	On the other hand, many people are just happy doing the same thing over and over again and trying the things they are already familiar with. This approach involves fewer risks but often lacks big rewards and experience in life. Due to this mentality, many people are not interested in moving to a different city or trying a new career path despite their potential of doing something greater and bigger. Interestingly, many people who are afraid to take risks or try new things often claim to live a less complicated life. But I believe that this is not a way to live life to the fullest as it lacks adventure and never brings out our true potential in life. 
	To conclude, doing the same things and living in the same place come with little risk, but lack adventure and tremendous rewards. Contrary to this, taking challenges and embracing new things come with enormous risks but the rewards are also huge.
Essay 3:
	Attempting new activities and breaking habits, such as visiting new places, pursuing a new hobby, and trying new types of food, can be a thrilling and enriching experience for some people while quite daunting for others who prefer to stick with familiar activities and familiar choices. Both attitudes have their own benefits and demerits, and ultimately, it is a matter of personal preference. In this essay, I will be discussing both these attitudes, but personally, I prefer taking challenges and trying new things often.
	Those who are not afraid of taking challenges and trying novel things can gain new experiences and enjoy rapid personal growth. They argue that experiencing new cultures, places, and foods, as well as pursuing new hobbies or tasks can broaden one's perspective and help one lead a more fulfilling life. I also have this mindset as I believe that trying new things can be an exciting and enriching experience. For example, I recently visited a new country for the first time and it was an amazing experience. I was able to learn about a new culture and try new foods that I had never had before. It was a truly enriching experience and I felt like I had grown as a person from it.
	The second perspective is to maintain familiar activities and choices. People with this attitude feel comfortable and secure in sticking to what they already do and know. They believe that sticking to the familiar can lead to a sense of predictability and stability in life. I can see where they are coming from because there is definitely comfort in the familiar. For example, someone who always eats the same food and never tries new dishes may miss out on new experiences and flavours but also does not regret trying something that is so peculiar that it leaves a bad feeling the whole day.
	To conclude, trying new things can lead to new understandings and personal growth while maintaining the accustomed routine can lead to a sense of predictability and stability. Since I love challenges and trying new things, I think it is good to try something new and break our habits for future growth and a fulfilling life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3692-plastic-bags-bottles-and-packaging-are-bad-for-the-environment",
Essay 4:
	It is irrefutable that plastic harms the environment to a great extent. Plastic pollutes lands and water, degrades the fertility of the soil, and harms animals disrupting the entire ecosystem. Recycling plastic and limiting its use while also introducing biodegradable alternatives to plastics are by far the most effective solutions to this problem.
	The environmental damages caused by plastic are severe and often extreme. Plastic bags, bottles, packages, toys and many other materials made of plastic remain in land and water for hundreds of years as they are not biodegradable. Plastic materials, that get mixed with soil, impair the breathability of soil and hamper the water flow in it. Thus it hurts the fertility of the land. Moreover, plastic that reaches the water bodies harms aquatic animals and coral reefs. Plastic pollution plays a considerable part in animal deaths. Today, plastic particles could be found in fishes, birds and other animals, and it disrupts the entire ecosystem.
	However, the authorities concerned and mass people can turn the tide and mend the damage done to the environment to a great extent. For that, they have to ensure that they both play their part efficiently. First, people have to spontaneously take part in the plastic recycling process by putting plastic waste in a separate recycle bin. The authority has to make sure that all recyclable plastics are properly recycled and reused. To limit the use of plastic bags, people need to use bags made of biodegradable materials like jute fibre. They can start carrying their own glass-made bottle instead of buying plastic water bottles. Reduction in consumption of plastic-made materials could contribute to a large extent in limiting the harms caused by plastic. Finally, the government can limit the use of plastic bags and bottles by imposing a hefty tax on such items.
	In conclusion, plastic is severely detrimental to the environment and ecosystem. So for our own benefit, we all need to use as less plastic as possible while also recycling the used plastic.
Essay 5:
	Plastic products are affordable, versatile and durable, but they are a threat to our environment. They pollute soil and water, endanger animals and act as a breeding ground for deadly insects. The authority and general people can take numerous measures to curb the problem and its magnitude.
	Plastics can severely harm our environment. The littering of plastics creates a rather unhygienic condition here and there. These unsanitary conditions then become the breeding ground for harmful insects and mosquitoes, causing diseases like malaria and dengue. According to United Nations Environmental Programme, we produce nearly 400 million tons of plastic waste each year. Such a large volume of plastic waste can harm our environment to a large extent, especially, when these plastic products take from decades to centuries to decompose. They seriously degrade soil fertility or quality, meaning plants or trees can not grow well on those soils. Moreover, plastic items can seriously pollute water bodies too, by changing their original chemical property, since they easily can find their way into the rivers and oceans. And when that happens, it poses a grave threat to fish and other marine lives. There have been instances where some large endangered species of tortoises were found to be suffocating because of mistakenly swallowing plastic bags that were attached to seaweed.
	To limit these environmental damages, governments and individuals, around the world, can take some effective initiatives. People can recycle some of the plastic products they use, and reduce their reliance on plastics. For instance, many people use glass-made bottles to carry water rather than using one-time-use plastic water bottles. But it definitely should be the governments that need to do the heavy lifting, in this case, to protect our environment from plastic waste by enacting different kinds of rules and regulations wherever deem appropriate and also continually running awareness programmes. For example, South Africa has restricted the manufacture and usage of plastic bags by enacting parliamentary legislation. Besides, governments can also offer tax incentives for those individuals or companies who do not use plastic products.
	In conclusion, plastic is an imminent threat to our world, and if we - both the government and individuals - work hand in hand, then the chances are one day, we would be able to see a world where plastic is not a problem anymore.
Essay 6:
	Plastic is used extensively because it is cheap and convenient, but it has severe environmental impacts. Plastic is not biodegradable, and the damage caused to the environment, especially to farmlands, oceans and marine life due to our love for plastic, is profound and should be stopped immediately. In this essay, I will outline the harms plastic causes to the environment and explore what could be done by governments and individuals to solve this problem.
	The damages that plastic causes to the mother planet are significant and irreversible. Plastic bags, cutleries, bottles, and packaging are not biodegradable, and they take thousands of years to decompose. This means that once we discard plastic-made goods, they will remain in the environment for an extensive amount of time. It severely degrades the fertility of farming lands all around the world. Moreover, plastic that finds its way into the body of water or oceans can be particularly harmful, as it can entangle and suffocate animals living there. Plastic, that reaches the water, can also be ingested by animals and fishes there, causing injury or death to these species. According to the Natural Environment data, approximately a hundred thousand sea turtles and other marine animals die each year because they get entangled in plastic items.
	To solve the problems caused by plastics, authorities and individuals need to take immediate action. First, governments, all around the world, can impose strict environmental laws, such as banning the use of plastic bags and promoting the use of biodegradable and renewable resources without delay. They can also impose hefty taxes on plastic products to discourage their use and manufacturing. Additionally, governments can organize numerous environmental awareness campaigns and programmes to educate the general public about the dangers of plastic and the benefits of using biodegradable and renewable alternatives.
	The general public can also make a difference by reducing their use of plastic bags, bottles, and packaging which will have a huge positive impact in curbing the detrimental effects of plastics. They can do this by using reusable bags made of jute or clothes, glass bottles and containers, and by choosing to use products that have almost no packaging requirements. Additionally, mass people can support businesses that use sustainable packaging, which can help keep millions of tons of plastic materials out of landfills every year.
	In conclusion, without a doubt, plastic is bad for the environment as it causes significant damage to our mother planet. We need to act now to stop the spread of plastic towards making a world free of plastic contamination and help the planet, especially ocean, retain its biodiversity. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3675-in-the-future-all-cars-buses-and-trucks-will-be-driverless",
Essay 7:
	With the rapid technological development, driverless vehicles are becoming a reality, and within a couple of decades, all cars will run without the intervention of a human driver. I personally believe that driverless cars will bring far more benefits than the possible drawbacks they have.
	To begin with the drawbacks, driverless cars pose some risks, including accidents and casualties, should the technology malfunction. Since the vehicles would be run and controlled by software and technology, the risk of devastating accidents due to bugs or hacking could not be eliminated. It will make us more susceptible to hackers and software glitches. An accident, in which a woman died, caused by a driverless car while still in beta mode, caused a great uproar a few years ago. Moreover, not all roads, especially those in poor nations with ditches, holes and insufficient road signals, are suitable for those automated cars to run smoothly.
	However, technology-made mistakes are astronomically fewer than man-made blunders when it comes to road safety and casualties, and this is where driverless automobiles can make a significant improvement. Though we point out a single accident made by a driverless car, human drivers are responsible for hundreds, if not thousands, of casualties each day all around the world. With the introduction of automated cars, accidents would reduce remarkably making roads safer for all. On top of that, millions of hours could be saved each day since we would no longer need to sit behind the wheel. It will increase our productivity and boost the national economy. 
	In conclusion, driverless vehicles have many great benefits including road safety and economic benefits, and it is expected that we could eliminate the software related issues to reap the maximum benefits of this marvellous technology.
Essay 8:
	Driverless cars, thanks to the phenomenal development of technology, are no longer fiction, but a reality, and it is expected that most vehicles will be autonomous in the future. Despite both benefits and demerits, the writer of this essay does think that the advantages of driverless vehicles do not outweigh the disadvantages. 
	One of the major advantages of driverless vehicles is that they reduce the number of accidents on the road. Such cars provide better traffic efficiency since the driverless vehicles can travel efficiently at an optimized and safe distance from each other by communicating among themselves in real-time, on the road, and by telling which routes to take. It reduces accidents and casualties to a great extent.
	However, the systems or the technologies, used to operate driverless vehicles, can malfunction or stop working at any time, without any prior notice. And, if that happens, an autonomous vehicle could actually put the passengers in more danger than if a human driver was driving it. Besides, self-driving cars lack the ability to make judgments among multiple unfavourable scenarios and outcomes. For example, let’s say that a self-driving car had to face a situation with only two possible options: one is to veer to the left and strike a pedestrian, and the other one is to turn to the right and hit a tree, potentially injuring the passengers inside the vehicle. Now, since both options are undesirable, which option would the driverless car choose? The Moral Machine, developed by a group at MIT in the USA, is seeking to address this critical issue by collecting data on real-life people’s decisions, but the data collected, so far, shows broad differences amongst different groups of people, making it very difficult to programme any definitive answer for autonomous cars. Thus autonomous cars are good to have but are not great to ride in!
	So, based on the discussion above, we can fairly conclude that the shortcomings of driverless automobiles outweigh their possible benefits.
Essay 9:
	The concept that all cars will be driverless has been gaining traction lately as advancements in technology have made it increasingly feasible and demonstrations have already been successful. The idea of a future where only passengers occupy such vehicles is one that has both benefits and drawbacks. However, in my opinion, the benefits of driverless vehicles outweigh the potential disadvantages.
	One of the main drawbacks of driverless cars is the potential loss of jobs for millions of drivers. This is particularly concerning in industries, such as trucking, taxi service and ride-sharing, where driving is the primary occupation. Another major shortcoming of fully automated vehicles is the potential for hackers to gain control of the vehicle and cause mayhem. This could be a significant security concern, as the technology is still in its infancy, and vulnerabilities may not yet have been identified.
	On the other hand, several major advantages of driverless vehicles make them an attractive option for the future. To begin with, driverless automobiles are expected to remarkably reduce the number of road accidents caused by human error, as the vehicles are controlled by advanced software and sensors that are less prone to mistakes. Additionally, automated vehicles have the potential to improve traffic flow and reduce congestion, as they can communicate with one another and adapt to changing traffic conditions in real-time. Furthermore, driverless vehicles could also have positive impacts on the environment as they will reduce fuel consumption and emissions, for example.
	In conclusion, while there could be some disadvantages to the notion of driverless conveyances, the advantages of such vehicles far outweigh the drawbacks. The fewer road accidents, improved traffic conditions, and environmental benefits that driverless vehicles will bring us, make them an appealing choice for the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3674-sugary-products-should-be-made-more-expensive",
Essay 10:
	Sugar is undoubtedly one of the most harmful food ingredients when consumed more than recommended potion - which is often the case in our daily diet. To reduce the sugar-rich food and drinks intake, many recommend making them more expensive, and I believe that such sugar-packed products should be expensive to promote public health.
	Despite the common myth of the health benefits of sugar, scientists and nutritionists suggest that they are addictive, and are slow poison. Fast foods and sugary foods and drinks like soft drinks, desserts, ice-creams, and sodas come cheap and are ready to be consumed without any effort. This is why they have become so popular, and from children to the elderly, everyone loves those sugary foods and drinks. But these are known to cause serious diseases like diabetes and heart diseases and are connected to obesity. Since they are linked to so many unexpected health diseases and deaths, the authority should impose taxes, directly and indirectly, on those sugary items to make them unaffordable by mass people and in the process improve public health.
	Moreover, people often opt for food and drinks that are cheap and easily available. And if we only look at the departmental stores around us, we can notice that we have sugary items all around us, and they are affordable. So to restrict sugar intake, their prices should be increased via direct and indirect taxes. If they are made more expensive, people will reduce their consumption and go for more healthy alternatives. For instance, if a healthy meal costs $5 while a sugary junk meal $10, most people will go for the cheaper and better option. It will gradually but surely improve public health and reduce medical care expenses both for the government and ordinary citizens.
	To conclude, imposing higher taxes on sugary items will bring about many benefits and reduce the cost of healthcare. It is therefore expected that the authority will take steps to make sugar-packed items expensive.
Essay 11:
	Sugary foods and drinks are detrimental to health, so many suggest increasing their price to dissuade many people from purchasing and intaking them. But, I will have to disagree with this opinion. This essay explains the reasons behind my opinion.
	To begin with, even if the authority suddenly increases the prices of all sugary products, we will still notice that many people are still buying those products as usual. They will be buying them either because they are just too much “addicted” to those sugary products, or a high price does not really curtail their abilities to buy such expensive products. It will, however, negatively affect the prices of the necessary food items, and poor people will suffer to a great extent because it is not only “sugar” that is needed to make sugary products, but rather several other raw materials, such as flour, milk, egg, oil and etc. And that means that if the governments want to increase the price of sugary products, they will not only have to impose a higher tax exclusively on sugar but also on the other raw materials. 
	Another problem with taking such a decision is that some manufacturers of these sugary products would still try to sell them illegally to their existing customers at a lower price, through some “back channels” or secretly, in order to keep their businesses, because a higher price of their products would almost inevitably push many of their regular customers away from buying their products. 
	In conclusion, we need to run awareness campaigns to inform people about the negative aspects of eating and drinking sugary items. When they are made aware, it will bring positive results while price hikes on sugary items would make things only worse.
Essay 12:
	It is no secret that most processed foods and drinks contain excessive amounts of sugar, and this causes several health problems while also contributing to the growing obesity epidemic in many countries. In light of this, many argue that sugary products should be made more expensive in order to discourage consumption and encourage healthier alternatives. I completely agree with this viewpoint. 
	One of the main reasons for the excessive consumption of sugary products and drinks is their low cost. Therefore, increasing the price of sugary products would be a proven method of reducing their overall consumption. A recent study conducted by the World Health Organization reveals that a 20% price increase in sugary drinks resulted in as much as a 15% decrease in their consumption in just six months. It is very logical that, when sugary products will be expensive, many people will be less likely to indulge in them as frequently, and will instead opt for healthier alternatives. This will be particularly beneficial for low-income individuals, who are disproportionately affected by obesity and related health problems due to their reliance on cheap, unhealthy food.
	In addition, increasing the price of sugary products and imposing higher taxes on manufacturers of such products, can also serve as a deterrent for them to include excessive amounts of sugar in their products. This way, sellers will be incentivized to reduce the amount of sugar in their products in order to remain competitive in the market and make a profit.
	In conclusion, increasing the cost of sugary products is an effective method of reducing sugar consumption and promoting healthier eating habits. It would not only discourage the excessive consumption of these products but also make healthier options more accessible and affordable for all.
Essay 13:
	Processed food and most bottled drinks are packed with an excessive amount of sugar. Over-consumption of sugar is related to many deadly diseases and obesity, and this is why, many suggest that if those sugary products are made expensive, people, especially those with limited purchasing capacity, would consume less sugar and opt for healthy alternatives. I wholeheartedly disagree with this idea as I believe that this approach is not effective in curbing sugar intake.
	It is somewhat true that many people, especially low-income groups, will not have sufficient means to buy sweet foods and drinks with high sugar levels when they are made expensive. Different research work suggests that when the authority increases the price of sugary products, mass people decrease their sugar intake proportionately.
	However, people do not consume sugary products only because they are cheap. Rather, they love those sugary foods and drinks because they find them tasty, satisfying and addictive. This is perhaps the reason many people in my country enjoy a bottle of soda more than they would enjoy a glass of fresh juice without any sugar in it. Furthermore, increasing the price of sugary items may lead to a situation where low-income people would opt for even lower-quality options. I believe that raising the price of sweet items in the market does not address the root cause of the issue because for many individuals sweet products are integrated with their eating habits. Some eat them as rewards, others as a coping mechanism for stress and depression.
	In conclusion, increasing the price of sugary food for the betterment of public health may seem like a great option on the surface, but it is not impactful. A more effective way would be to educate people and promote healthier food to combat the negative trends of consuming excessive sugary foods and drinks.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3673-businesses-emphasise-that-products-are-new-in-some-way",
Essay 14:
	Businesses often have to endure the cut-throat competition in order to attract customers and increase sales and profit. As a means to attract more customers, they have a tool called "advertisement" which emphasises how their products stand out from the crowd and how uniquely novel they are. I believe advertising new and unique features of a product is a marketing and branding strategy to boost sales, and in my opinion, it is mostly a negative development.
	Every brand claims that they have the best product in the market, and their goods have fascinating new features. They do so to create a positive impression to the consumers to increase their sales and profitability while also staying ahead of their competitors. Take the advertisements that we watch on TV for consumer products like shampoo, soaps or body lotion - all of which proclaim that their products have the best ingredients and something new that their counterparts do not have. Even they beat their old versions by adding a new vitamin or flavour (which is often ridiculed by scientists) and claiming that this is the best ever product! Clearly, this is a marketing strategy to boost sales and profitability while also creating a craving among the consumers for their products.
	It is mostly a negative trend because the new features that the businesses advertise are nothing novel in the true sense. They are just another version of the same product with a change in look, flavour or ingredients. It is true that industries like car manufacturers and electronic device manufacturers sometimes do extensive research to revamp their products and truly add new features for their customers. But most often consumer products and even the famous hardware brands add more creativity to their advertisements than the real products, thus making a false sense that people need their new products.
	In conclusion, novelty and innovation in products come through research and development, not through marketing and advertising tricks - which is often the case in the adverts we are exposed to. It is expected that advertisements by brands would reflect the true features of goods rather than claiming something new and innovative every now and then.
Essay 15:
	Brands often promote their products as innovative and novel. They primarily do so to attract more customers and increase their sales. In my opinion, any effort, on the part of businesses, to describe their products or services in a new light should be considered a positive thing because, without such practices, we would not be able to know about many of the necessary products and services that we use today. 
	The obvious reason for this trend is that all businesses want to boost their sales and revenues. But, unfortunately, increasing sales and revenues is not always as easy as it may sound, especially, when they are operating in a very fiercely competitive market. And that is exactly why they need to employ innovative advertising ideas and business strategies to show their prospective customers that their products indeed are “something new” and offer better values for the prices they pay. 
	Such “tactics” is also a positive development and indeed needed because it helps businesses and companies reach and attract a larger customer base from different lifestyles, cultural backgrounds, professions, ages, races and religions. In other words, we all are different, with different tastes and preferences, and therefore it is only natural that the businesses would want to target each group of these customers with different and unique messages in order to showcase and identify their products as something “new”. Moreover, such strategies employed by businesses bring positive results to many consumers because, the majority of the customers today, if not all, expect more out of their life. In other words, they do not necessarily like to remain satisfied with the same kinds of products that offer the same kind of “values”. The companies and manufacturers, of course, also know this too well except they are just not able to come up with different kinds of products every month, so to speak, to meet their customers’ demands. 
	In conclusion, to keep customers on board and enhance sales businesses often advertise their products and services as innovative and new. It helps both customers to satisfy their more-than-life expectations as consumers while also bringing in more revenue to businesses. 
Essay 16:
	Nowadays, most brands place significant emphasis on promoting their products as novel and innovative in their advertising campaigns. This trend is becoming increasingly prevalent, and one that many, including me, believe is a negative development.
	Businesses choose to promote their products this way for many different reasons. First and foremost, new products are often seen as more exciting and appealing to consumers than older products. And when consumers find something appealing, they spend more money to purchase them. Additionally, promoting a product as new and innovative can help a product stand out in the marketplace, and ensure more profit for the business organisation. Perhaps, this is why we see so many variations of cosmetics in a single store, and many of them have been introduced very recently.
	However, in my opinion, it is ultimately a negative trend. First, it can mislead consumers by giving false or fabricated information about a product. This is both unethical and deceitful. Second, The trend can lead to a cycle of constant consumption by many consumers, and after a while, dissuade them from buying products that they believe would be replaced by new products sooner or later. For instance, the demand for newly released Apple products is no longer so high among consumers as they know the brand is going to bring another improved version of the same products in a year or so. 
	Furthermore, the constant emphasis on newness and advertisement campaigns to broadcast them to consumers can lead to a lack of innovation. When businesses are more focused on promoting their products as unique, rather than actually making them pristine, they may be less likely to invest in research and development to create truly innovative products. This can lead to a marketplace full of products that are only slightly different from one another, rather than truly unique and groundbreaking products. An example of this can be seen in the technology industry, where new smartphones are constantly being released with only small improvements over previous models, which can lead to consumer dissatisfaction.
	In conclusion, most enterprises publicise their products as new and innovative, and it is a negative development since it can dupe customers and lead to customer dissatisfaction. Therefore, businesses must focus on creating truly new and innovative products, instead of just promoting them as such.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3672-people-are-becoming-interested-in-the-history-of-their-house",
Essay 17:
	Many citizens, nowadays, are inquisitive to learn about the home they live in as extensively as possible primarily because they want to learn about the background and style of their house, assess the safety, and find out if it is haunted. I believe nearby elderly citizens and the internet could be two invaluable sources for such curious people to find the best possible information about their buildings.
	The knowledge of the background of a house gives people a sense of self-satisfaction. This is why people, especially those who live in a house that was built many years ago, are often interested to find out more about the adobe. The background often includes how the house was painstakingly built in an era when technology was not so advanced. Thus, exploring the background reveals some unique and fascinating facts. For instance, it was a common misconception for many dwellers in the old part of our city that their houses were built during the English colonial era. In fact, researchers recently found that those houses were built mimicking the English styles but by the local masons. It was fascinating to finally learn about it. Moreover, the construction and the built-quality of a house convey much information about the safety and durability of the houses. Knowing such details could prevent people from facing any disaster like falling victim to a collapsed house. Finally, some people superstitiously think a house might be haunted if it has some bad history. Learning about its history often comes from their personal belief and their motivation to either cleanse the house or move off. 
	To get proper information about the houses, people can talk to local senior citizens who had been living there for quite a while. They can offer first-hand information about the building and much more details that are not available elsewhere. On top of that, the internet could be another effective source to get details of a house. For instance, many websites store data about the houses in the UK, and anyone can find them online with just a few mouse clicks.
	In conclusion, people's motivations to learn about their houses could range from safety reasons to simple curiosity, from superstition to practical reasons. To get the best information they can contact elderly locals and browse the internet.
Essay 18:
	The history of a house or a building can be fascinating, sometimes daunting or even mesmerising at times if we try to delve into it. For some people, learning about the history of the houses, in which they live, is utterly important for various reasons. This essay attempts to outline some of those possible reasons for this and a couple of methods to research this.
	The first possible reason for many to become inquisitive about the past of their houses could be that they actually want to find a connection, if any, between themselves and the buildings. Such connections, or lack thereof, could actually provide an insight to them as to whether those buildings contained anything “unique” at some stages of their existence that would make them- the people that is – feel “special” among the others, or “different” from the rest of the crowds in their neighbourhoods. After all, I think that it feels really good to remain at the centre of attention every now and then.
	Some people would be interested to learn about the history of their buildings, especially how they were built, or what kinds of materials were used to construct them because they want to make sure that the buildings are safe enough for living. After all, nobody would want to put their lives at risk by choosing to live in a “weak” building that was built with some “unreliable” materials about a century ago! 
	But, for whatever reasons that they want to learn about the history of their buildings, it is always better that they ask the locals first to get their information about the former residents of their houses. They could also contact the local municipality or the concerned local authority who could apprise them about how the buildings were made. Finally, people could also visit a local library or the authority that keeps the information about old buildings, to learn about the history of buildings in their respective areas. 
	To conclude, people are becoming more and more interested in the history of their houses primarily to find a unique feature of it to feel special or to learn about the architectural style and safety features of the house. They can contact local residents, municipality offices and the library to do the research work required to find the history of their houses.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3577-keeping-pets-is-good-for-children",
Essay 19:
	Some individuals support keeping pets around young children as they think it is beneficial while others oppose the idea citing pet-related injuries and fatalities in recent times. In this essay, I shall argue that dangers that stem from young children having pets are overemphasised, sometimes even exaggerated, and children receive substantive psychological benefits from having pets.
	To commence with, most parents allow common and friendly pets like cats, dogs and birds as their children's companions and the number of strange pets like snakes, spiders, apes, etc. are very rare. Such unfamiliar pets, which are a bit wild in nature, have been reported to hurt some children. However, such incidents are so rare that they are negligible because the overwhelming majority of children have non-lethal pets like cats, dogs, fish, rodents and rabbits. For instance, recent statistical data reveals that 93% of children own non-lethal and friendly pets that have almost zero per cent chance of harming or hurting children. So, I believe that pets are not a physical danger to children.
	To shed some light on the positivity of letting children have pets, I can think of many. However, the most important of them is the favourable effects it has on children's psychology and growth. Young pet owners frequently empathise with their pets and perform a diverse range of activities to maintain their well-being. The Cambridge Developmental Psychology Unit found that children who had grown up with pets were 30% less likely to bully others and show aggression. Pets are also conducive to young children's mental growth, and they get involved in interesting activities with their pets that help them realise empathy more deeply. So it is undeniable that a child’s prosociality and mental health can be improved through exposure to pets.
	In conclusion, letting young children possess and interact with friendly pets has important benefits. It is not a threat to children, but rather beneficial to nurture some important good qualities in them. So, it is expected that parents who wish to have pets for their children would consider those benefits and finally select one of the friendly pets for their children. 
Essay 20:
	While some people prefer to keep their children at a distance from pets because of health and safety reasons, others choose to do just the opposite. In this essay, I would like to argue that pets are actually good for the overall well-being of children for some obvious reasons.
	The first reason, of course, is that pets provide the children with comfort and company, especially when nobody else is accompanying them. But, even when somebody is accompanying them, children still feel a sense of comfort in the company of their pets, mainly because those pets are usually more “passive” and “loyal” than other humans. And that is exactly probably why, as some researchers have found, a very significant percentage of parents allow their youngsters to have pets. 
	Pets also help young children with learning. In fact, we often can see the children, who otherwise do not like to read, lying on their beds and reading to their dogs or cats and showing them pictures. The juniors even ask questions to their pets to see if they - the pets, are actually paying enough attention to the readings. In other words, the little ones actually learn important and fun things in a pleasant environment while petting their cats and dogs. Besides, researchers have also monitored that the stress level of the kids goes significantly down when they are with their pets. 
	Finally, some researchers have also found that having pets can reduce a child’s risk of developing certain common allergies. Such research showed that children, who had animals, had fewer positive skin tests for indoor allergens - like a pet and dust-mite allergen, and also outdoor allergens such as ragweed and grass, compared to those juniors who did not live with pets. 
	So, based on these findings, it can easily be argued that pets actually help children's development, rather than harming them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3576-secondary-school-children-should-study-international-news",
Essay 21:
	The strength and prospect for the global media to shape the views of today’s youth and to educate them are significant. However, while some opine that the global media and international news, as part of education, have no important impact on secondary education, others believe that international news should be studied by those pupils to reap its benefits. This essay attempts to examine the issue by diving deep into it. I believe that international news as part of the secondary education syllabus is important.
	On the one hand, global media enriches young people's understanding of contemporary affairs and enhances their views and perspectives. It is due to the fact that international affairs, as part of education, not only make them more conscious and knowledgeable but also connect global youths on the same platforms. For example, a study run by Oxford sociologists showed that the media heavily influences teenagers’ knowledge of contemporary affairs which has a highly positive impact on making them aware of the world. This awareness makes them global citizens and encourages them to share ideas.
	On the contrary, many critics argue that teenagers would be negatively affected by the global media’s focus on negative issues of international events like wars and civil unrest if they are included in their education. This is because exposure to violence often leads to depression and the youths may grow an apathy towards our history and global politics. For example, recent surveys have discovered that despondent teenagers usually cite the dismal state of the world as a source of their depression. Since mental health is an important objective of secondary education, it is, therefore, questionable whether the study of international news would benefit young students.
	In conclusion, it is clear that there are reasons for and against the study of news in secondary schools. However, educators and authorities can make it more useful by adopting proper policy and teaching methods, and reap the benefits of teaching young students international news as part of their academic education.
Essay 22:
	International news can be a great source of knowledge and information from time to time, but that does not necessarily mean that it should formally be included in the secondary school curricula as one of the school subjects. In this essay, I will try to explain why I have taken such a stance on this issue. 
	The primary reason is that most of the children from the secondary school level have rather tender minds and hearts, and as such, they will not actually be able to make sense of the many negative and controversial things that take place all over the world on a daily basis. After all, we do not live in an ideal world.  Besides, most news media today provide “biased” news which sometimes could not be any farther from truth, and these young children just do not have the required cultural, social, economic and political awareness to penetrate into the biased news, in order to separate the facts from fiction. So, instead of becoming more smart and knowledgeable about the world, in which they live, they will probably become more sad, prejudiced, and confused, if not hostile, about it should they be required to study international news as a school subject. 
	Secondly, secondary school children already have to study many other challenging subjects, such as math, language, physics, chemistry, social science, history, and geography, and adding one more subject to that list would only create more pressure on those children. And with this extra pressure of study, those children would not most likely have enough time to play and socialise with their friends which are needed to ensure proper physical and mental growth. Finally, it is also possible that these teenage, restless children are getting distracted easily by many of the confusing, complicated and biased news every now and then, so much so that it would actually affect their studies rather negatively.
	In conclusion, if we analyse these points, mentioned above, with an objective mind, we will have to agree that including international news as a school subject at a secondary level is not such a good idea, after all. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3575-fresh-water-has-always-been-a-limited-resource",
Essay 23:
	Fresh water, which is vital for the survival of humans and other flora and fauna, has always been a scarce natural resource on our planet, and this has been more acute in dried parts of the world. Due to rapid population growth and industrialisation, scarcity of this valuable resource has become a global issue. In this essay, I shall outline the main factors that have contributed to this problem and then elicit certain steps that can be taken to address this problem.
	Regarding the reasons for the increasing demands for fresh water, population explosion is perhaps the most contributing factor. It is only natural that an inflated global population means more demand for freshwater - without which we can not live. Rapid industrialisation has also increased the demand for salt-free water. For instance, millions of cars are being produced every year, and a startling amount of fresh water is required in the process. Finally, urbanisation, human activities and industrialisation have polluted many natural fresh water reserves and have compounded the graveness of this issue.
	As for the solutions to this intense and looming issue, strict legislation for preserving natural fresh water is required. No factories or industries should be allowed to carry on activities that poss threats to making freshwater sources polluted. Moreover, to reverse the already polluted reservoirs, the government should enact infrastructures for purification of them. More scientific experiments and research are required to convert seawater into saline-free water, which, I believe, will help in meeting the growing requirement of freshwater. Similarly, ordinary people can also contribute towards this noble cause by conserving water and also by limiting their daily household water usage. They should also refrain from performing activities that will pollute natural freshwater reserves.
	In conclusion, fresh water is a limited resource without which we can not survive. This is why both the authorities and individuals should take every measure to save the already inadequate resource and find ways to purify seawater into freshwater. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3574-job-applicants-social-skills-are-more-important",
Essay 24:
	Whether job applicants’ social skills are more important than their academic qualifications is a much-debated issue, and employers' opinions, regarding this, vary. I agree with the opinion that the social skills of candidates are more vital than their academic results, and in this essay, I will explain the reason for this belief.
	The benefits of excellent social skills of a job seeker are apparent. Firstly, communication is the key to career success in modern days. This is primarily because the 21st century is best portrayed by constant interaction with different people, no matter the communication media - in person or online. Secondly, the ability to sell products or services is of paramount significance in any business – this requires strong social skills. For example, an employee with excellent social skills is able to have an impact in front of customers or clients; as a result, products or services can be perceived as high-value. Furthermore, employees with better social skills are generally more easy-going, which is very important to the workplace, including the employer. After all, as the saying goes, “who you work with is as important as what you do”, and an enjoyable work environment needs socially skilful employees. 
	In contrast, some employers may claim that academic qualifications are a prerequisite for employment. Apparently, many positions require certain academic qualifications. However, in modern-day society, more and more employers have realised that whether employees can get the results that the business wants is the key to a business’s success. It can be seen that qualifications do not play a key role in this regard. 
	In conclusion, I believe employees’ social skills are of extreme importance for a company or organisation. Also, I would suggest employers consider job applicants’ social skills first, which I believe would bring long-term benefits for the company and make a positive impact.
Essay 25:
	The hiring managers are always on the hunt to recruit the best employees. But, should they put more emphasis on the social skills of job candidates than on their academic qualifications and other skills is open to discussion and debate. For me, the answer is “no”, and this essay will explain why.
	We may wonder but can not exactly be sure why there is so much buzz about this “social skills” thing. For better or worse, the scope and benefits of a candidate's social skills - for instance, communication skills, flexibility and cooperation, positive mentality and so on - while ignoring other important qualifications are not exactly defined and accepted universally just as yet, except in some industries like “hospitality” and “healthcare”.  And that is exactly why we never really blame or question, for example, an accountant’s “social skills” level when he makes a mistake in preparing a “ledger” or “balance sheet”. Rather, we question or blame his or her commitment, experience, expertise or poor educational background.
	Besides, it is still a common practice in the professional world that most employers today first ask about the academic qualifications of a prospective job candidate. And when that prospective candidate meets the minimum academic qualifications and/or experience requirements, then, and only then, the employers go to find out about the “social skills” level of that candidate. It is never the other way around. I found this to be specifically true in my case as well when I applied for several jobs in the past.
	In conclusion, the social skills of a job seeker are important, but, such social skills are of very limited value unless they are supported by some good academic qualifications and other important skills.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3564-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-new-approach-in-teaching",
Essay 26:
	We have moved into a technology-driven era where technology is affecting many different aspects of our life, and education is no exception. So, in some schools, traditional methods of education have been revolutionised by new technology to the extent that the lecture is no longer the main method of teaching students. While this new approach has some advantages, it also has many significant shortcomings. This essay outlines both the advantages of disadvantages of this novel approach.
	Perceivably the biggest advantage of the use of the latest technology in education is the flexibility it offers. This is evident in two different ways-  firstly, it is now no longer essential for students to be present in the classroom for their courses. The COVID-19 pandemic has specifically taught us how this flexibility could be a lifesaver. Moreover, the distance learning facility enables employed professionals, housewives and people from different countries to enrol and successfully finish useful courses offered by numerous institutes. Another area of flexibility is of course the interactive tools like "Moodles", for example, the lecturers can use to deliver their courses to large numbers of students.
	Not everything, however, about the introduction of this new technology into education is useful. To start, not all students are comfortable with using technology, even if they are part of the digital native generation. This is a grave issue as they may suffer from their lack of technological skills and interests. For instance, an overwhelming number of students, almost 75%, despite their enthusiasm for smartphones and computers, reported that they do not like online classes. Another related issue is that education is a human activity, and it works best with as much human interaction as possible. Impersonal technology cannot replace the human contact found in traditional face-to-face tutorials and seminars. Thus a piece of technology or tool can never be an alternative to expert tutors who know their students individually and act and teach them accordingly.
	To conclude, technology in education brings some important benefits and enables distance learning possible. It also becomes the only way of learning and teaching during lockdown and pandemics. However, due to the fact that it can be too impersonal for some and discourages others for their lack of technological skills or passion, it is still not the best method to teach and learn.
Essay 27:
	Technology has touched every aspect of our life today, so much so that we can not think of living without it, even for a day. The world of “teaching and learning” is no exception, and this essay will try to explain what benefits and demerits incorporating technology in this field have brought.
	Perhaps the most visible advantage of it is that it allows students to access more and varieties of information with just a few mouse clicks. Students, with the help of technology, can choose to research topics, and fill their interests and needs, much more easily than by going to a library where resources may be limited. And the best thing about it is that all this can be done in a group, freeing the teacher to attend to other individual students in more need. In other words, using technology in this way ensures that all the students get what they need, and also when they need it while allowing teachers to focus more on academically poor students.
	Another advantage is that technology helps students accommodate multiple styles of learning. For example, some students respond better when communicated verbally rather than in written words. For such students, recorded lessons, audiobooks, and podcasts can effectively be woven into their lesson plans so that they can extract the benefits.
	However, while technology has allowed both teachers and students alike to accomplish more, it is not without disadvantages. One such disadvantage is that it has significantly reduced the “face-to-face interaction” between students and teachers. This “face-to-face interaction” is very important because it helps students not just acquire facts, but also understand, interpret, and apply these facts into useful and interesting knowledge. More importantly, without such interaction, it is very highly unlikely that teachers would be able to help students build self-esteem and confidence and emotional maturity, especially, when there is so much bullying in and around the classrooms. 
	To conclude, technology is a reality of our life today, and we just can not ignore it even if we want to. Therefore, we should be judicious in using it in the field of education and learning in order to extract maximum benefits.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3563-students-in-single-sex-schools-perform-better",
Essay 28:
	Some people affirm that students in male or female-only schools have better chances for academic achievements, whereas, many others point out that co-ed schools offer students better social skills for their future. This essay will discuss both these views, but the writer is in favour of a mixed-sex school.
	Admittedly, single-sex schools have fewer distractions. This is because if a school has only boys or girls, students would not be distracted by members of the opposite sex at school; hence, they can focus on their learning. But, these students still have access to the other gender after school, which means, in reality, they must meet the other gender anyway. Consequently, single-sex schools do not guarantee better academic performance and results.
	On the contrary, students studying at mixed schools have more chances to communicate with members of the opposite sex. In other words, children learn how to interact with the other gender at an early age; therefore, their social skills would certainly be fostered. Moreover, mixed schools give students opportunities to deal with conflicts with the other gender, which strengthens students’ problem-solving skills. For instance, when a boy has a conflict with a girl, both of them must learn how to cope. This lesson must be learned sooner or later; as a result, students benefit more if they can learn it sooner. Finally, mixed schools provide students with a real-life scenario where both genders co-exist. Specifically, students can learn in an organic environment in which boys and girls must know how to interact with each other.
	In conclusion, I would concede that single-sex schools have some minor advantages. Despite that combined schools certainly support students better and prepare learners to become more socially adept. Overall, I am convinced that students should go to mixed schools for better professional, social and adult life.
Essay 29:
	The debate over whether single-sex schooling is superior to a “co-educational” system has been rumbling on for decades. But, after analyzing the views and opinions from both sides in an objective manner, it would be fairly easy to conclude that the “single-sex” option is slightly better, and this essay will try to explain why that is the case.
	It is true to some extent that the “co-ed” schooling system provides students with better social skills. After all, in such a system, boys and girls can learn to behave with each other from a very young age and grow together to be cooperative. Besides, the interaction between boys and girls isolates some of the “less desirable aspects” of both sexes.
	On the contrary, a considerable advantage of single-sex education is that students in this educational system feel much more relaxed than their “co-ed” counterparts. Such relaxed feelings are cultivated in the absence of a “desire” to impress or attract the opposite sex. In other words, students in such an environment are more true to themselves and have the freedom to behave as they please, and as such, they are more willing to take risks since there is no fear of failing in front of the members of the opposite sex. As a result, the classrooms are more often dynamic, free, and bursting with ideas and conversation - all are hallmarks of a great education.  
	Besides, many studies and research suggest that boys and girls tend to learn different things differently. For example, girls are usually ahead in reading, writing and spelling, while boys are ahead in mathematics. Boys need more intensive input in these areas of literacy, so only separating them would ensure that they are getting proper guidelines and lessons in these areas.
	Therefore, from the discussion above, we can conclude that single-sex education should be a preferred option even though mixed education can sometimes provide better social skills to young learners.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3556-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-repeat-driving-tests",
Essay 30:
	The growing number of cars on the roads and reckless driving are the major causes of increasing road accidents these days. Therefore, many people, as well as some politicians, express their view that repetitive driving tests, and not just one test to get and renew the licence, should be in place. This essay outlines some advantages as well as disadvantages of the continuous testing process and opines that this has more benefits.
	To start with the demerits of repeat driving tests, this process may unnecessarily impose a burden on people. This is because they will have to prepare for the test, pay for it, and allocate time for the test in order to renew the licence. As a result, many people may tend to avoid the tests, and one day, get pulled over and fined for an outdated licence. Moreover, it will cost money to the authority as well. Therefore, it may not solve the issue easily while both the drivers and the authority will be under pressure.
	To outline the advantages, road safety in a country is a major concern and so is the obligation of legislators regarding this. Increasing vehicular movements and drivers' recklessness are two primary reasons for accidents on the roads. Drivers get outdated and more inept to new road rules and safety practices. For example, with age, many drivers may not see the traffic signals and road signs easily. As a result, such drivers may potentially hit other moving vehicles and people. Therefore, the repeat tests for driving, from time to time, will definitely improve the safety on roads. Moreover, many young drivers do not abide by the traffic rules, and continuous tests would ensure their awareness of safe driving. Finally, when people will have to take driving tests periodically, they will remain updated about traffic and safety rules.
	In conclusion, reoccurring driving tests improve people's driving accuracy, make them aware of safety and laws, and find out potentially risky drivers. So the benefits of such tests surpass the drawbacks.
Essay 31:
	Taking appropriate measures to stop road accidents is important due to their direct impact on the social environment, and forcing the drivers to take regular driving tests could possibly be one such measure. But, this measure has more disadvantages than advantages. This essay will outline the advantages and demerits of repeat driving tests, and try to explain the reasons why this had more drawbacks. 
	No doubt repeat driving tests would eventually flush some, but not all, bad, crazy, and dangerous drivers out of the system. It would also probably put some “restrictions” on those drivers who can not drive properly anymore because of their old age or some debilitating illnesses. It is also possible that regular driving tests would alert or motivate some drivers to become more careful with their driving because of the fear that their driving licenses could be cancelled at any time. 
	But, none of these advantages can be ensured or achieved without a high cost, as well as extra effort and time. After all, the state would need to employ additional resources, and thereby an additional budget as well, to take care of the additional driving examinations. In all probabilities, governments would then probably pass these additional costs or expenses on to the vehicle owners or drivers as extra taxes to cut government expenditures. These additional taxes would certainly weigh down heavily on these drivers and vehicle owners.
	Now, even if these vehicle owners are ready to carry the burden of extra tax money and time, they would not necessarily be ready to remain under constant fear of being stripped of their driving privileges because of some “one-off” mistakes during the time of regular driving testing. Essentially, the same sentiment was echoed by a former director of AAA (American Automobile Association) of traffic safety advocacy and research who said that regular driving tests had been shown to reduce mobility by way of drivers voluntarily giving up their licenses due to fear of getting them taken away rather than any legitimate concerns about their driving.
	To conclude, the disadvantages of regular driving tests would outweigh their advantages. This is why the authority should think wisely before taking such measures when it comes to repeat driving tests and road safety.
Essay 32:
	The number of automobiles on roads is increasing rapidly these days which is aligned with the number of road accidents. Consequently, some opine that all driving licence holders must take a driving test periodically rather than taking it only once in their life. The following essay will discuss both the positive and negative sides of the repeat driving test. Personally, I believe that this process has more benefits than drawbacks.
	It is undeniable that taking a repeat driving test would have some distinct disadvantages for people. One of the major drawbacks is the time and preparation it would require. In addition, people would have to pay every time to take the test. Finally, they also believe that it would cost more for the government as they must provide additional manpower, logistics and facilities in the driving test centres.
	Despite all the negative aspects, performing a repeat driving test would have some significant benefits for everybody. Firstly, by having a repeat driving test, each driver would be updated with driving regulations. Secondly, drivers would be more cautious when they drive as their license will be checked regularly. Thirdly, it will reduce the number of traffic accidents because the driver's physical condition would also be examined as a part of the test. For example, each driver's eyesight would be examined as some drivers might have poor eyesight which may cause accidents. Thus repeat driving tests will drastically reduce road accidents.
	In conclusion, conducting a driving test periodically has some drawbacks, but I do believe that it has more benefits for everybody. It is expected that regular driving tests will reduce the number of road accidents to a great extent.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3551-places-around-the-world-seem-similar-nowadays",
Essay 33:
	Global tourism is enjoying an upsurge in popularity nowadays. However, this trend is accompanied by many complaints that similarities of the landscapes considerably reduce the delights and attractions of the travel. Globalisation, in my mind, is the greatest reason for the similarities. I also think that it has more disadvantages than benefits.
	No doubt, globalisation unifies the world in many different aspects. Girls in Shanghai can be witnessed to have the same street look as those in Paris and Milan; KFC and Pizza Hut are popular in Bangkok as they are back in California; the amazing film "2012" was premiered internationally at the same moment. Tourist attractions cannot escape from this sweeping trend. Therefore, it is quite normal to hear comments from a tourist in Hong Kong, claiming that what he or she has seen is just the same as in Tokyo.
	This phenomenon, to me, is a depressing one. People may have sacrificed too many of their cultural identities for this. Culture is our ancestors' most treasurable heritage that is supposed to be passed on from generation to generation. It would be disastrous if people could only recall those busy shopping streets instead of the traditional lanes and houses after their trip to Vietnam. And I remember how frustrated I was when I found a lot of popular souvenirs in some foreign countries that could be bought back in Ho Chi Minh City — those delicate wooden sculptures really seemed far less appealing to me.
	To conclude, since the trend of globalisation is inevitable, I suggest that both the government and the public make joint efforts in protecting and preserving their unique cultural features. Otherwise, global tourism would eventually turn to be boring and pointless.
Essay 34:
	Our world has essentially become a global village, and it is only expected that things, including sceneries in different places, would look similar in one way or another. Contrary to many popular beliefs and suggestions, I think that these similarities carry more advantages than disadvantages, and this essay will explain why, as well as the reason behind such similarities.
	Globalization is perhaps the single most contributing factor which makes cities look similar, makes western food common in distant Asian countries, and inspires Africans to wear dresses designed by European designers. For instance, the last time I travelled to Tokyo in Japan, a city that was supposed to be quite a contrast from London or New York, I could hardly believe that I was out of my homeland!
	Of course, opponents to this trend would suggest that it has more disadvantages since they are not being able to see or experience anything “new” by investing their time and money. Some would also claim that in this way, they are losing the benefits of their unique cultural identities, and the privileges that are associated with them. But, if we look at the bigger picture, we will see that such similarities are actually bringing us closer to each other, by eliminating at least some of the misunderstandings among us, as well as some invisible, man-made, cultural “barriers”, we had, among each other. And when we have a sense of more “closeness” among us, we will try harder to cooperate with each other to eradicate poverty and suffering from our world, sooner rather than later. Here we can actually dare argue that if we had such “cooperation” among us in the past, we did not really need to deal with people like “Hitler” or “Genghis khan”.
	In conclusion, we do not need some sceneries or popular landmarks to become symbols of “cultural and identity separation”, rather we want them to minimize the “difference” among us. And that is exactly what happens when we find places and sceneries to be similar to each other in different countries, even though its effects are not always visible and measurable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3550-computers-and-the-internet-are-important-in-childrens-study",
Essay 35:
	How children study and learn today, both at home and school, are radically different from the past, and the increased availability and relatively low price of modern technology have been instrumental in this change. However, I feel that while modern technologies, such as computers and the Internet, are important in assisting a child's learning, this learning should be guided and directed by the experience of human teachers.
	Undeniably, computers and the Internet are extensively used in education, and they can present knowledge in a vivid and novel way. The computer and the Internet can also enable students to enhance their general understanding of how to solve difficulties in the study as well as giving them vital skills in readiness for later life. However, the problems are - the information that the computer can show has to be preprogrammed and needs constant updating. For example, the Internet may not be always a reliable source for knowledge, since there is often conflicting and fake information available when taken from unauthentic sources.
	To conclude, I do not believe that it will help students to learn effectively and in an impressive manner to overemphasising the use of computers and the Internet. Rather, I feel that modern technologies can complement more traditional teaching and learning methods without being used as a replacement for these traditions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3549-shopping-is-favourite-free-time-activity-for-many-young-people",
Essay 36:
	Young people’s approach toward hobbies is changing dramatically, and it is often influenced by technology and the modern world. At present, shopping as a favourite pastime activity is becoming extremely popular, especially among youngsters. Admittedly, shopping outlets' services, lucrative offers, rapid changes in technology, and digital advertisements are playing key roles in making this trend popular. However, unnecessary shopping is a waste of time and money, which, I believe, could be better utilised by youths.
	The modern world we live in has many new technologies, gadgets, and fashion items, and they change so frequently that it is almost impossible to remain fashionable, trendy and updated without shopping regularly. Many people, especially youngsters, go shopping regularly because they feel those items are necessary for them. Since brands release new items quite often, the young generation goes shopping frequently. Digital advertisements by big and small brands also reach millions of youngsters and constantly lure them to get fashionable items to look and feel good, and sometimes their offers and discounts are quite good to be missed! For instance, renowned brands like Nike or some small brands often give up to 50% discount which drags many youngsters to their outlets.
	Youths can use their leisure time in more productive activities and hobbies like going out and doing exercise, socialising with others, getting involved in charity works and taking part in different outdoor sports. These activities will keep them mentally and physically fit and make a far more healthy young generation without chronic diseases and obesity. Besides, they can invest time in reading, which will broaden their imagination and enhance their knowledge. For example, it is evident that students who like to read a lot do much better in exams and end up having a better career than those who hardly read books outside of their academic syllabus.
	To conclude, I believe that shopping is important when it is restricted to buying necessary items. But if it becomes an obsession by young people, it is a problem. They should better spend the money and time doing things that would benefit them in the long run.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3548-tourism-today-creates-a-variety-of-problems",
Essay 37:
	Nowadays, environmental issues caused both by tourists and tourism-related activities have become so grave that many people insist on imposing hefty taxes on air travel and hotels for the sake of restricting the tourist inflow. I, however, disagree with this notion and believe that the authority should find better measures to address this rather than limiting the tourism industry with the burden of extra tax.
	The key reason why I believe that governments ought to avoid levying more taxes on flights and accommodations is that tourism creates employment for local people and makes economic movements in the region. It also brings significant foreign remittance to the country. Many countries, St. Lucia, Maldives and Thailand, for example, heavily depend on the steady earnings of their tourism sector. It also makes people tolerant of different cultures and lets them learn about diverse cultures and traditions. If more taxes are imposed on the movement and accommodation of tourists, it would bring catastrophic results for many countries. Therefore, measures which would entail a decline in tourists should not be implemented.
	To control pollution and excessive wastage, authorities can employ workers to clean their surroundings while instructing visitors not to pollute the environment. Policies to improve the manners of tourists should be implemented as well. Improving public buses and dedicating transport to foreign tourists can reduce traffic congestion to a great extent. Moreover, scientific research and engineering feats can reduce the pollution created by vehicles and aeroplanes, and money should be spent on such research works. These solutions would improve the situation on the one hand, and not deprive citizens of jobs and economic freedom on the other hand.
	To conclude, extra levies on tourist transportation and accommodation will limit the inflow of tourists, putting local citizens' livelihoods at risk, especially in tourism-dependant countries. It is expected that the authorities would find better solutions that try to control pollution created by tourists’ actions in travel destinations instead of reducing their number.
Essay 38:
	Tourism, no doubt, is important for many countries for several reasons, including its economic, social and cultural benefits. But, at the same time, we can not deny that tourism, if left unregulated, creates some problems, and governments should intervene to mitigate some of these issues by imposing extra taxes on flights and accommodation.
	To begin with, tourism, one of the 10th largest industries in the world, is important for many countries. But, it becomes worrisome when it puts some undue pressure on natural resources through over-consumption, especially, in places where resources, infrastructure and facilities are already scarce. To reduce the overconsumption of resources, the government's initiatives to impose extra taxes could work like magic. Here we can specifically mention the small island countries, like Cyprus and Malta, which struggle to accommodate a large number of tourists. Hefty taxes seems like their only solution.
	Not to mention, of course, the air and water pollution, among other negative effects, that are caused by the massive tourist transportation activities, both in air and sea, could also be controlled by imposing a travel tax. With more than a billion people travelling each year, the government needs regulations to keep the activity in check to minimise its negative effects. One way to effectively do that is to impose extra charges and taxes on accommodations and travel. Some European countries have already implemented policies to protect their tourist destinations, in quiet, non-offensive ways, by controlling the number of hotel beds, the number of flights to and from a country, and the number of tour buses allowed. No doubt, these are some good steps to control the flow of tourists, but they would yield even better results if these initiatives are supported by a tax increase on things like flights and hotel accommodation.
	To conclude, tourism is important but too many tourists and their uncontrolled movement can have negative consequences. So the government should levy taxes on their accommodation and travel to keep a check on the number of tourists, and this can be a great step towards saving the tourist's destinations and the world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3533-negative-impacts-of-children-playing-computer-games",
Essay 39:
	People use computers more extensively these days than ever before, and it is so widespread in our modern world that even children have access to these devices for playing games. This essay discusses the disadvantages of playing digital games on computer devices by youngsters and suggests some measures to reduce its negative effects.
	Concerning the adverse impacts of young children playing video games, the most devastating one is the addiction these games create. Millions of dollars are spent to make computer games so that they attract a large number of audiences and keep them glued to the computer screens. So they are addictive by design. And this obsession hampers children's outdoor activities, studies and even time to socialise and learn important life skills. To illustrate, many research works suggest that children who spend many hours playing computer games each day end up performing poorly in schools and avoid social events and outdoor activities. It results in physical and psychological issues including poor eyesight and despair. Moreover, violent games cloud the youngsters' judgement and make their rational thinking unstable. Oftentimes, youngsters who play violent games develop violent behaviours. To cite an example, an unfortunate shooting event that claimed many innocent lives took place in an American school a few years ago was carried out by a teenager who was addicted to shooting games.
	To minimise the severity of these negative impacts, parents must monitor what their children are doing, especially on computers. They should not be allowed to play computer games for more than a couple of hours each week, and parents can actively participate in those games with their children so that it becomes family time. An ideal example of it could be my aunt and uncle who play video games with their children, and as a result, children are also interested in doing outdoor activities with them. Finally, parents can use parental control over the digital content and games their children watch or play. These measures would deter children from downloading and playing games that are not suitable for their age.
	To conclude, computer games, when played excessively by children, have many detrimental effects. Proper parenting and monitoring seem like the best solution to solve these problems.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3532-to-be-fully-enjoyed-films-need-to-be-seen-in-a-cinema",
Essay 40:
	Technology has revolutionised the way audiences watch movies these days. With the internet, smartphones and tablets, we can now watch movies anywhere and anytime. Some people believe that this is a substitute for going to the cinema. Personally, I think that movie theatres deliver an unparalleled experience as not all movies can be enjoyed on small screens.
	On the one hand, the advent of smart devices has put the cinema business at stake as it has redefined how people can watch a movie. Recently, many people have begun relying on their smartphones to watch their favourite videos and movies at their convenience. For example, many mobile applications, such as Netflix, provide users access to millions of contents at an affordable price, including those that are not shown in theatres. This has given people a good reason to enjoy movies with their family at home. It would be costly and inconvenient if people had to watch those movies in the cinema.
	On the other hand, theatres give an unmatched experience that viewers can not get while watching movies on a small hand-held screen. For example, in movie theatres, films are projected on a large screen with a high-quality surrounding sound system and a comfortable seat, where spectators can enjoy the film to its fullest. In addition, many cinema providers have recently introduced new theatre concepts to cater to various customer segments and included a wide range of cuisines in their dine-in options. If cinemas cease to exist, movie-lovers would be deprived of such an immersive experience. Moreover, watching movies in a theatre is more than enjoying a movie, it is a great way of socialising. To give an example, whenever I watch a movie with my friends, it is more enjoyable due to the social interaction and enjoyment it offers.
	In conclusion, despite the convenience the smart devices provide for movie-watchers, I strongly believe that theatres still remain an important option, especially for movie-goers, who prefer experience over convenience.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3531-many-working-people-get-little-or-no-exercise",
Essay 41:
	Nowadays, the ratio of employed people who suffer from different health-related issues is increasing faster than ever and their general health condition is deteriorating. Such a cataclysm has stemmed from work pressure, lack of physical exercise and dependency on machines to do our work. Exercise, encouragement from the employer and the government to do workouts, and finally, a balanced diet are the solutions to this problem.
	One of the primary reasons for working people not to do enough or any exercise is the abysmal working condition where working life is extremely competitive and full of anxiety. For instance, employers have constant deadlines and tough targets at their offices, and to achieve them, they have to work for long hours each day. It drains their stamina, and as a consequence, they do not want to do any exercise even when they are at home. In addition, dependency on technology has deteriorated the condition. Due to technological advancements, people have exchanged the available time for exercise with browsing the internet, watching television and checking their accounts on social media websites. They also prefer to drive than to walk, and use washing machines to clean their clothes - just to give some examples. This trend, in turn, has negative impacts on their health.
	To address this problem, physical exercise is a "must". To remain fit, those workers have to stop leading a sedentary lifestyle and start moving. The government can facilitate outdoor activities so that people get out and take part in those activities after office hours. Employers have to realise that healthy employees mean better productivity and they should arrange exercise facilities at the office premises. To give an example of how sports and exercise facilities can encourage employees to do some workout, we can take offices near the parks and gyms as an example. It is evident that employees in those offices are practically more inclined to do exercise than those who are located in areas where public parks and exercise facilities are rare. Finally, the workers have to follow a balanced diet to achieve a better result, and the office can help them with that too.
	In conclusion, exercise is essential to our health, productivity and life. In consequence, workers, authorities, employers, and individuals should collaborate to make everyone's lifestyle healthier by adding more time for exercise and helping follow a balanced diet.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3530-music-for-bringing-people-of-different-cultures-and-ages-together",
Essay 42:
	Music plays a crucial role in our lives and eliminates differences among various cultures and generations. It symbolises harmony and reflects humanity. So, I agree with the notion that music helps bring people from various cultures and generations together.
	One of the reasons music excretes the barriers among different nations and cultures is that people enjoy music from every part of the world, and it speaks the same language, which embodies human emotion, joy, love and sorrow. Music does not need interpretation to be enjoyed and understood as it touches our hearts and resonates in our minds. No matter what language we speak or understand, we appreciate the melody and depth of music which is why people of all ages can sit together and enjoy the same music. For instance, some viral music in foreign languages in our country signifies how it speaks our minds and hearts rather than just a human language.
	Moreover, nations influence each other with the type of music they produce and the type of musical instruments they use. This amalgamation reduces cultural differences and brings people from different cultures and ages to a common platform. To cite an example, many music genres, that we enjoy these days, were derived from multiple nations and cultures and people from all these cultures enjoy and love them.
	Finally, music is an art form which is enjoyed by all, and this helps reduce the generation and age gaps among people. To illustrate, when the national anthem is played, children, adults and elders all tune to the same emotion, which is patriotism, and their unity is stronger than ever. The same can be said when music evokes other emotions like love, sadness and so on. Besides, some music categories are loved by all, and the listeners feel a sense of togetherness in a divine way which is almost absent in other art forms. It not only eliminates age gaps but also the generation and cultural gaps.
	In conclusion, music, as a universally accepted and supreme art form, enriches our lives and strengthens the connections between us, regardless of our backgrounds, culture and age.
Essay 43:
	Music can stimulate our minds and bodies and also offer some temporary relief from mental agony and sadness. Music probably can do many other things, but it can not bring people of different cultures and ages together. And this essay will explain why we can not rely on music to accomplish such a difficult task.
	Music has some elements and qualities to bring some like-minded people within, not outside of a certain culture, country or nation closer together in a common bond because the tone and tune of that music sound so familiar to them. Many music lovers even suggest that music is the food for our soul, regardless of our ages. True that may be, but when we are pinning our hopes on music to unite people of different cultures and ages, we are becoming too much optimistic, to say the least, because culture is a very difficult subject to understand and so is “human nature”.
	Culture is not only about what we like to listen to, or what we do not for some temporary pleasure or gratification.  Rather, culture, among other things, very predominantly is also about “how we are so dissimilar to each other”, and it is essentially this “wish” or “sentiment” that helps us cling to our own ways of life, no matter how “peculiar” or “weird” that may look to other cultures. It is because of this strong “sentiment” that even though, almost all the countries in the continent of South America essentially speak the same language or practice the same religion, they are not merged into only one country. The same applies to different ages as well, and that is why we see, more often than not, that while a young guy likes some heavy rock or heavy metal music, an older person likes a more traditional or classic type of music.
	So, from the discussion above, it should be fairly clear to us that music is important for our life, but it is not a good way to bring people of different cultures or ages together.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3529-major-cities-continue-to-grow-at-a-phenomenal-rate",
Essay 44:
	The tremendous expansion of the metropolises and the worsening environment in such areas are major dilemmas in the contemporary world. Our classic towns and villages, with gardens and playgrounds, have turned into ugly concrete jungles, and that has led to a deterioration in people's living standards. This has primarily happened due to the mass migration to cities for better careers and amenities. The establishment of pristine societies and self-reliant suburban systems can improve the situation dramatically.
	This urban sprawl could be attributed to two primary reasons. First, the migration of skilled and unskilled workers from rural to modernized societies, seeking better jobs and higher quality of life, has accelerated it. It is evident that tens of thousands of people move to cities each year where they think they will have better careers and earnings. Secondly, city-centric education, healthcare, and other amenities have tempted people to move to cities. Take my grandfather as an example who moved to our capital city approximately 45 years ago with the hope that he would ensure better education for his children. This colossal movement of population to metro areas has increased the cost of living while declining the living standard.
	The government needs to find effective solutions to check the mass migration of people to cities, and also prevent the deterioration of these municipalities and people's living standards there. Firstly, the construction of pristine societies where environmental standards can rival what used to be in our cities in retrospect could be a great initiative. Then, the authority can encourage people to live in towns and rural areas by providing important facilities, such as health coverage, free education, and child benefits. For instance, if people in suburban areas are offered health insurance and education for free, they would not plan to move to cities where treatments and child education are generally much more expensive. Moreover, the development of the suburban area to create more jobs is also essential without compromising its green nature. This could be achieved by constructing more schools, offices, and business centres while also setting higher minimum wages in these areas.
	In conclusion, the explosion of population in municipalities kills our future and hope. So we - the government, civil societies and individuals, must tackle this crisis before it aggravates beyond our control.
Essay 45:
	Rapid developments in megacities and mass migration of population to these metropolitans with the hope of better life, career and future have ushered in a perplexing conundrum that leads to a worsening life standard, crowd and pollution in such big cities. City-centric development, better-earning prospects and amenities in large cities have primarily stimulated the development of this situation. The government needs to decentralise and focus on the development of suburban and rural areas to reverse the scenario. 
	Most megacities develop faster than any other part of the country and attract millions of people who migrate from other areas. This situation stems from the fact that the authority enables city-centric growth which makes the big cities the hub for business, trade, manufacturing, education, research, employment and so on. This city-centric development forces people to move to big cities to add more woes to the already deteriorating situation there. A large factory, for example, in a city can hire thousands of people, and most of these employees come there for a better career. Moreover, most universities, colleges, hospitals, offices and other amenities are located in the heart of the large cities, and people move there to access those facilities. A recent statistic points out that more than 80 thousand students move to our capital city each year to get enrolled in different college and university courses. 
	To solve the ever-increasing population burden and pollution in metropolitan areas, the government has to move out many offices, colleges, factories and so on to remote areas. Without relocating those, the expectation of reducing pollution and crowd in big cities is far-fetched and impractical. For instance, at least 2.5 million factory workers live in our capital city who can not afford proper accommodation, sanitary bathrooms and clean drinking water. Diseases can spread faster there than anywhere else and could risk the whole city in the process. To move those people to suburban or rural areas, the government has to decentralise. Moreover, the development focus should not be only city-centric. It should rather be properly distributed. This will make sure people have jobs in rural areas and are not forced to move to a large city.
	In conclusion, the phenomenal growth of cities poses different problems and increases pollution, and traffic congestion, and decreases living standards. Decentralisation and rural area-centric development can reverse the situation to a great extent.      
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3518-life-has-become-much-more-stressful",
Essay 46:
	Stress slays us from the inside and can lead to personal, social, physical and psychological issues that drive us to the verge of dilapidation. Stress and anxiety are far more severe and widespread among the modern generation than in their forefathers. The reasons for this crisis could be attributed to poor working conditions and the worldwide financial crisis. Several initiatives could be taken to address this problem.
	One of the primary reasons for the extensive stress-related problems in the modern era is the demanding and highly competitive work environment. Constant work pressure, deadlines, and job insecurity lead to lengthier office hours, which leave little or no family or personal time. It disrupts our relationships, social life, and sleep pattern, and fosters unhealthy diet habits and sedentary lifestyles. For instance, with the ever-increasing working hours, employees sleep fewer hours than ever before, and the majority of them do not cook healthy meals at home. The final result is a more stressful life and deteriorating health conditions.
	Another reason for this horrendous problem is the global economic crisis and rampant inflation. As a result, many people find it extremely difficult to meet their expenses and often get trapped in loans and debts. Bankruptcy is increasing, and more people are trying to get a second job to support their lifestyle than ever before. The result is more depression and distress, which even leads to suicides.
	As a solution to this social catastrophe, governments should enact laws to restrict working hours and push employers to improve the working environment for their employees. In addition, financial aid to needy people and mentorship and therapy programmes for already sufferers are needed. Finally and most importantly, we, as individuals, have to be more prudent in our lifestyle choice, expenses, savings and retirement plans, and spend quality time with our family to eliminate stress and tension. To give an example, even after having a busy professional life, people who choose to lead a healthy life often tend to suffer less from depression, anxiety and stress. So our choices matter.
	In conclusion, stress is a silent killer and impedes our performance, deteriorates our health and destroys our relationships. It is expected that individuals and governments will work hard to make a stress-free modern world for all.
Essay 47:
	"Stress" is a curse in our modern-day world, and it is the reason for some serious health concerns today, compared to our forefather's generation. In this essay, I shall discuss what causes stress, and how to deal with it.
	Stress and stress-related problems are so common today around the world because we constantly expect way too much out of our life than what our parents and grandparents used to expect. As a result of this, we try to do too many things, at once, thinking that those things will make us feel happier and better. But, of course, we are only human, and we just can not do so many things, without putting a huge burden and strain on us!
	Apart from this “expecting too much out of our life” thing, issues like finance, family and relationship problem, and work-related pressure also cause people to stress in one way or another. But, out of all these matters, financial issues seem to top the list. In fact, according to a recent survey, the majority of the study participants reported money being a significant source of stress, with 77% feeling considerable anxiety about finances. It is accelerated by our imprudent spending habits and rampant inflations.
	But, whatever may cause this menace called “stress” among us, the end result is that it is causing some serious health concerns for many of us, and that is why we need to get rid of it. And to do so, we all first need to keep in mind that we just can not have it all in our life, no matter how hard we try. We also need to communicate our problems with our families and the people around us, as frequently as we can, so that we do not feel overburdened with our problems. Finally, we also need to have some time for ourselves so that we can do some physical exercise because physical exercise can also ease pressure on our minds and help us get rid of stress.
	In conclusion, stress is a widespread problem and is primarily caused by our have-it-all expectations and financial problems. To overcome it, we need to be realistic about our expectations, spend prudently, communicate our issues with others, and do some physical activities regularly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3505-unemployment-remains-the-biggest-challenge-to-school-leavers",
Essay 48:
	Adolescents face several challenges on their path to adulthood and successful career. And it becomes even more difficult for school-leavers as sorting their ways out in the employment market seems to be the immediate obstacle they encounter. Besides, other social and family issues often hurt them, and this essay shed some light on the topic.
	Regarding the problems fresh school graduates face, the most acute is the scepticism harboured by employers over hiring them. It seems to be the reason behind the high unemployment rates in many countries, especially in third-world countries where managing a job by a school leaver is exceptionally difficult. Employers usually look for experienced workers who possess practical skills and at least a college degree. Hence, school graduates with no prior experience are often placed at the bottom of the shortlist. For instance, due to unemployment, many university graduates apply for simple clerical jobs, which makes the scenario for school-leavers even more baffling.
	Moreover, limited job prospect is another big problem for them. Even the school-leavers are lucky enough to secure a job, they have to work long hours with low wages. They often do not have sufficient time and money to pursue higher academic qualifications needed for career progression. Consequently, they are trapped in lower positions with limited social mobility.
	Sadly, young people are not only challenged by employment problems. They may consistently live under the threat of political instability, social unrest, sexual and racial discrimination, and child marriage - all of which are beyond their control. These risks pose actual threats to the physical safety of youngsters in addition to their livelihoods.
	To conclude, unemployment is one of the major problems for young people, especially for school-leavers. However, the lack of safety, social unrest, and discriminations are also serious problems for them in parts of the world.
Essay 49:
	Unemployment is a significant challenge in many parts of the world today, but it is not the biggest challenge to school-leavers in most countries. So, I disagree with the idea of the essay. Here, I will also outline other serious challenges that are faced by young people today. 
	School-leavers are young people who are generally very optimistic and enthusiastic about joining the professional world, but they are also generally very inexperienced at the same time about the realities of life as well as the professional world. In many cases, these school-leavers do not also have the necessary skills, aptitude and acumen, needed to enter or compete in the job market. But, once these school-leavers receive some proper training and experience, related to the available jobs, getting a job suddenly does not remain such a big challenge anymore. 
	In conclusion, unemployment is a big challenge, but not the biggest challenge for school-leavers. Deciding on important directions in life and staying away from bad friends and bad habits are much more challenging for them.
Essay 50:
	The unemployment rate among youngsters who have recently finished school is a major concern in many countries. In my view, finding the first job is a herculean task, and the most challenging perhaps, for such youngsters just after their school graduation. As a result, many of them remain unemployed. So I agree with the opinion offered.
	To begin with, the modern job pool is extremely competitive. Employers are looking for candidates with a renowned diploma as well as considerable experience. Thus, just a school certificate and some training courses cannot guarantee employment for adolescents in most countries. This is why unemployment is still the biggest problem that fresh school graduates have to face. To illustrate, more than 66% of school-leavers in many subcontinent regions remain unemployed because they are not eligible to apply for better jobs and due to the lack of suitable jobs for them in the job market.
	Besides unemployment, school-leavers often face family pressure and money insufficiency that they cannot avoid. According to the research conducted by the Bureau of Statistics, one of the major social issues for fresh school leavers is the expectations from their family to support them, especially in needy families. The research reveals that such youngsters were ready to work extra hours or find a not-so-suitable part-time job just to support their families. But getting a decent job was tremendously challenging.
	In conclusion, youngsters face several difficulties after they complete school education, such as family pressure and the shortage of money. However, the most challenging task for them, in my opinion, is finding their first stable job.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3504-employers-offer-subsidized-membership-of-gyms-or-sports-clubs",
Essay 51:
	Sound health plays an indispensable role in our life and work performance. That is why many employers seek ways to offer perks, such as gyms or sports clubs sponsorship, with a belief that healthier and happier employees will become more productive at work while many other employers simply do not invest in it. The essay will examine both sides, but I personally believe that various other motivations and rewards, in combination with this initiative, will bring effective results.
	The proponent of gyms or sports club subsidies offered by employers believes that physical and mental wellness is a prerequisite for optimal work performance. It is evident that sportive people are less likely to get sick, take fewer sick leaves and hence bring the least disruptions to daily operations in their workplace. Furthermore, sport is a good way to build team spirit and promote interpersonal skills. Thus the harmonious professional relationship that results from workers hitting the gyms or playing sports will certainly facilitate work efficacy. Moreover, sports club sponsorship by companies will implicitly convey the message that employers care about the wellness of their employees. Perhaps, employees will pay extra effort at work if they are valued. For instance, some of my friends speak highly of their employers because they feel their office authority takes care of their well-being by offering the facility to hit the gym.
	Conversely, the opponent of gyms or sports facility funding says that companies should focus on incentives that really matter to employees instead, namely job prospects, pay increments, job satisfaction, training opportunities, reasonable workloads and holidays. If employees’ performances are directly linked to their pay increments or career progression, they should have enough tangible rewards to work effectively. Likewise, if workers are able to identify meaningful goals or get job satisfaction, they should have intrinsic motivation to excel at work. To give an example, studies show that employees work more dedicatedly when they are motivated and are awarded rather than having facilities like gyms.
	In conclusion, I believe that gyms or sports clubs membership offered by the office is one of many effective motivations for some employees to work efficiently at work. But for many others, monetary or other tangible or intangible rewards are more useful. It is expected that employers will provide a range of extrinsic and intrinsic motivators that will promote productivity at work.
Essay 52:
	These days, some employers think that a healthier crew of staff means more productivity and more revenue for their business while others think that it brings no benefit to them. In this essay, I will discuss both views, but personally, I am in favour of the former view.
	On an average, workers may spend up to three-quarters of their day sitting down on their desks to get their job done as best and fast as they can except, of course, they do not know that such “marathon attachment to their desks and chairs” can contribute to a range of preventable health conditions, like back injuries and stress, depression or anxiety. Now, this information alone should be enough of a reason for the employers to motivate their employees to get involved with some sort of physical or gym activities. But, in case, if it does not, then they should consider that according to a UK government report on May 8, 2018, published by its “Department for digital, culture, media & sports, in the year 2017, just over 1.3 million workers suffered from work-related ill-health, which equated to 25.7 million working days lost.
	Of course, those, who do not care much about the health of their employees, suggest that health and fitness can not be spoon-fed. They are correct to some extent because our lifestyle is often a choice that we make. They also argue that if someone does not take any initiative on his or her own to improve his or her health, then the chances are that the initiatives on the part of a company would not also really make much of a difference.
	In conclusion, the opponents of promoting better health for employees may have a point or two, but that does not necessarily mean that employers should not try to take some sort of initiative to make their employees healthier. And the sooner, the employers take such initiatives, the better will it fare for their businesses.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3502-what-problems-will-your-country-face-in-next-ten-years",
Essay 53:
	The covid-19 pandemic has shattered the world to its core, and ongoing wars in different regions have brought us to the verge of a large-scale war more devastating than any time in human history. Thus the world is facing numerous challenges on top of its regular problems like global warming, overpopulation and poverty. My country, I believe, will face economic challenges and the possibility to get involved in a war in the next ten years.
	The global economy has been hit hard by the ongoing pandemic, restrictions, wars, and recessions. My country, in particular, relies on imports more heavily than its exports. As a result, the foreign currency reserve may shrink in the future, making it more difficult to import necessary fuels and goods from other countries. It will surely have negative consequences on our economy. Moreover, our job market is likely to become more unstable due to the challenges faced by the businesses. Besides, the world is watching appalling and devastating wars, and many countries, including ours, have a possibility to get involved in a war in the next few years. If this happens, the fate of our country is bleak.
	To address the upcoming economic problems of our country, the authority has to take diverse initiatives to strengthen our export industries. They can offer incentives to export-oriented companies, for example, to achieve that. They should also take measures to increase our foreign reserves so that we do not get trapped in a situation where we will fail to import necessary foods and medicines for the lack of foreign currency. One way to achieve that is to restrict the amount someone from our country can spend on a foreign tour from now on. To avoid wars and regional conflicts, our leaders have to take part in friendly discussions with their counterparts instead of their hot rhetorics. We must understand that it is not a time to get involved in a war when millions of people are suffering from the ongoing pandemic and recession.  
	In conclusion, our country has to act prudently to avoid economic crisis and wars by all means as these two are the greatest threat ahead of us.  
Essay 54:
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3415-environmental-problems-world-is-facing-are-so-great",
Essay 55:
	Governments, environmentalists and large organisations, in many countries, are trying to curb environmental problems, and a part of this effort is to make people aware of environmental issues. It is surprising how our dietary habits or even the dresses we wear can all contribute to environmental problems. So, without involving ordinary citizens, government bodies and private organisations can not reverse the downward fall when it comes to the environment.
	To commence with, without creating awareness among ordinary citizens, it is impossible to achieve environmental protection. We, as ordinary citizens, are constantly contributing to global warming, pollution and climate change. To illustrate, the cars we drive exhaust carbon dioxide, the dresses we wear require a large amount of fibres and water, the plastic bags we use end up in the water, and even the diets we follow can impact the climate. Thus, if people are not cognizant of their actions that are directly or indirectly responsible for global warming, they will not fully comprehend the gravity of the intricacies and feel responsible. Climate change is so big a problem that only governments and large organizations can not work to find a solution, and a coordinated effort is required.
	It is undeniable that countries have taken serious steps to curb environmental problems, and our leaders meet frequently to discuss it. Restrictions are in place on gas emissions, fossil fuel use, plastic production and use, and alternative sources of green energy are being invested upon. But if the efforts are not made at an individual level, the magnitude of damage and pollution would far outstrip the efforts. To cite an example, scientists, engineers, environmentalists and the authority may come out with proposals and invest money in research, but they can not control the amount of plastic bags we use and throw away without recycling. Every environmental problem is related to our human lifestyle and unconsciousness, so it is high time to include the syllabus about environmental protection in our school. We have got only one planet to live on, and we must save it.
	In conclusion, whatever we do to the environment will return and affect us. So all levels of education should emphasize how we can be more responsible in protecting it. A joint approach by the authority and mass people can only make it happen.
Essay 56:
	Nowadays, environmental issues have become bigger and more crucial than at any time in the past. Some believe that authorities, large firms and manufacturers can play a fundamental role in reversing the detrimental damages done to the environment while ordinary people have little to contribute. From my perspective, although the government and large companies must take immediate actions to save the earth, people have an important role to play.
	The earth is confronting devastating threats, and it is imperative to take some radical moves by the authorities immediately. For example, authorities should dedicate a large amount of budget to improve the public transport infrastructures and enact strict regulations and laws regarding usage or ownership of private vehicles. They generate a considerable volume of greenhouse gases, which are considered the main culprit behind global warming. Moreover, it should be compulsory for companies to be based on renewable resources of energy for their productions. Also, they should limit their productions to the proportion of demand because mass production not only threatens the natural resources but is also primarily responsible for endless rubbish and harmful pollutants that overwhelmingly harm nature.
	In addition to the actions required by the government and organisations, people need to be active in saving the mother planet. Little choices they make can have a big impact. To cite an instance, the way we dispose of our household waste can make a difference. If we separate the biodegradable and non-biodegradable garbage from the origin, from homes, it will effectively reduce the recycling strain, which is profoundly time, money, and energy-consuming. Furthermore, the more they become aware of the environment and understand how crucial it is to protect it, the more sustainable and healthier the world becomes.
	In conclusion, governments and large companies must initiate immediate and radical actions for the sake of the earth's survival, and people still can play a significant role in diverse aspects of the earth's well-being.
Essay 57:
	Every country in the world is suffering from some sort of environmental crisis, which is exacerbating each year. In my view, individual effort is less significant in reducing such damages; hence, the government, international organisations and big corporations should come forward to tackle this ever-increasing global warming and environmental issues.
	Environmental damage is an intricate issue that primarily results from careless industrialisation. Most factories release chemicals into the environment without any treatment and emit CO2. So, they are liable for such devastating environmental degradation, and they should pay all the money to reinstate the environment. To give an example, according to the World Economic Forum, industrial wastes are the key reason for the contemporary ecological collapse, and it comprises 70% of the world’s pollutions. Since industries are primarily responsible for global warming, they should be made liable to invest to reverse it.
	Moreover, pollution is wreaking havoc in all countries. As countries are inextricably connected, they can not deny their duties to resolve the issue. When the iceberg in Antarctica melts, it increases the risks of floods in the lower sea-level countries like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Interestingly, 80% of global warming is happening due to excessive fuel usages in developed countries. So rich countries should reduce their fuel consumption to limit the global temperature rise so that other countries become free from any environment-related jeopardies. Governments, international organisations and large corporations have the means and capacity to tackle it internationally, and ordinary people can do little to enact international laws or take effective initiatives to reverse the damage done.
	In conclusion, the intensity of the environmental damages has reached its peak, so individual efforts cannot change it significantly. In fact, large organizations and governments should resolve the issue because they are responsible for most of the damages, and they have the means to control it.
Essay 58:
	Humans have been degrading the earth ever since we realised our capability to harness nature. As a result, we are facing environmental issues that have gone beyond our control. Despite coordinated efforts by environmentalists and governments, the downward spiral has hardly been reversed. And, environmental problems are not only the liability of the government and big organisations, but it is also everyone’s duty to protect, nurture and care for the mother earth.
	To begin with, problems associated with the environment today are getting worse, and the earth is being polluted not only because of large industries or factories but also because of us - ordinary people. Every action we, as ordinary citizens, take also has an impact on our environment. For example, the use of plastic is a common cause of environmental contamination and no matter how many times the government bans the use of plastic, the havoc it causes to the environment will not stop unless mass people stop using it. We have to realise how significant it is to protect our environment, and deciding to carry bags made from fibres or biodegradable materials could be an initial step.
	Moreover, the government can not decide to stop industrialisation as that would severely hamper a country's GDP. On top of that, large corporations are mostly after their business profit rather than caring for the environment. So if we rely on such organisations to reverse the damage caused to nature, we would only be imprudent in the long run. We need to step forward and vow to save the only planet we have for us and our future generation. For instance, large organisations or the local authority can plant trees to a certain extent, and it will not have a drastic impact unless and until people start planting trees in their spare space and on the rooftop.
	To conclude, considering the increase in overall environmental damages in recent years, the earth will become inhabitable soon. To save our planet and the human race from becoming extinct, we all should join our hands together and work towards the common goal of reducing the damage to our environment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3414-fossil-fuel-is-extensively-used-in-many-countries",
Essay 59:
	Fossil fuel, though extensively used, is not eco-friendly, and its usage comes with huge environmental costs. Considering global warming and climate change, and the detrimental effects fossil fuels have on the environment and public health, green fuel, such as solar, hydro and wind power, could be the answer to our future energy demand. It is a good thing that many countries have already started using these green power sources.
	The demand for fuels is rapidly increasing in many countries with the population rise. It is also associated with industrialisation, and it seems only obvious that oil, coal and natural gas-rich countries would largely use them to take the leverage of their stock of such energy sources. For instance, Russia has natural gas, China and India are rich in coal, and the USA and OPEC countries have a huge stockpile of oil. Besides, other developed countries that do not have a huge stock of such fuel, import them from other countries at a considerably cheap price. However, the stock of fossil fuel is limited and would get exhausted at a certain point. So, alternative and green sources, which is renewable, would be the main source of our energy in the future, and we should get ready for the time when we will have no new oil or gas stock. Since green energy like wind and solar energy is renewable, their use should be as much encouraged as possible from right now, and it is a good thing that the trend has already started.
	Alternative sources of power, such as solar and wind power, do not pollute the environment, have lower carbon emissions and are eco-friendly. So their use could save the planet from the disaster of global warming which is already visible around us. Wind power and solar power are in use in countries like Denmark, Germany and France, and more and more countries are joining the list. We already have an extremely efficient technology to produce solar and wind power, and the trend is quite encouraging.
	To conclude, the energy demand is increasing at a fast pace, and the stock of fossil fuels is diminishing. So we should turn to alternative green energy sources and share the technology and expertise with all nations so that the transition happens all around the world to save our otherwise dying planet due to climate change and greenhouse effects.
Essay 60:
	Every year the energy demand is increasing globally. So the strains on the current and already limited resources are high, and most of these energy resources, like fossil fuels, harm our environment one way or another. So I wholeheartedly believe that the use of alternative sources of energy is a positive trend, and their use should be encouraged further.
	To solve the global energy demand and environmental problems, we need answers to questions like how to better use the existing, limited fossil fuel resources, and how we can encourage the use of alternative energy sources. Fossil fuels, like coal and oil, are not an unlimited source of energy. Some countries are rich in oil deposits like OPEC, whereas others have coal deposits or natural gas. And a few others, Germany and Japan, for example, are completely dependent on the import of such resources. For all these countries, alternative energy, also known as green energy, should be encouraged and utilised to reduce the dependence on fossil fuels as well as to keep the global environment in balance and ‘healthy’. The trend of producing green energy is thus a timely initiative to save our planet from climate change and global warming.
	To turn the situation in our favour, we have to introduce clean energy supplies that would not harm the environment and would be feasible for most countries to produce. Wind power and solar power are at present seem to be the perfect alternatives for that. Countries like France and Norway, among others, have the advanced technology needed to produce extremely efficient solar panels to store energy from the sun or produce win power. Both kinds of power can reduce a country’s dependence on fossil fuels, so their use is, no doubt, a very positive trend.
	In conclusion, the use of solar and wind power to produce energy does not pollute the environment and in turn, helps keep the ecosystem stable. So they should be treated positively, and their mass use encouraged.
Essay 61:
	These days, the environment is being severely affected by the excessive use of nonrenewable energy resources, such as petrol, diesel, coal and natural gas. However, eco-friendly and renewable power sources like wind and solar power are being adopted in many countries, and I wholeheartedly think that it is a positive trend.
	To begin with, many nations have already made a firm decision to regain the balance of our planet. To achieve that, they have made significant modifications to their system. Firstly, the implementation of windmills and hydroelectric plants is gaining popularity at a rapid pace. This is a secure way of generating electricity that saves the environment and money and leads the way to a future when clean energy will be predominant in the world. For instance, Croatia is setting an example for its neighbouring countries by generating seventy per cent of its energy from solar power. It is a very positive development that other countries can follow to make the world green again.
	Additionally, the major advantage of utilising these alternative resources is that they greatly reduce the carbon content of the environment and make the planet more sustainable. Moreover, it is cheaper to produce such clean energy than to extract coal or natural gas which makes these eco-friendly energies affordable to mass people. A recent study by Oxford University reveals that the production of solar power is 30% cheaper than that of fossil fuel. This finding again emphasizes how important it is for all nations to opt for renewable energy sources, and how beneficial it is that many countries have already invested in generating clean power.
	In conclusion, even though we have harmed Mother Nature to a great extent by indiscriminately using fossil fuels, some countries have already shown us a better way to produce and use power. It is expected that more countries will invest in alternative sources of energy to make the planet green again and make energy affordable for all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3413-should-we-discourage-people-to-use-cars",
Essay 62:
	Personal cars have become an essential part of our life due to a variety of benefits it offers including easy access to different facilities and services, safety, freedom to travel, and comfort of the journey. However, these advantages come with a cost, and among them, environmental degradation and traffic congestion are two major concerns. We can improve the public transportation system and gradually increase fuel prices to discourage people from using private cars while also investing in eco-friendly cars.
	Problems associated with increasing car use are huge, and its environmental impacts are a great concern for many.  Automobiles are a big source of carbon dioxide emission and greenhouse effects and not to mention, air and sound pollutions in urban areas all around the world. Vehicle exhausts contribute to global warming, acid rain and many health-related problems. Climate change is already affecting millions of people's lives and hurting the ecological balance, and it is terrifying to think about what the ever-increasing vehicles on the roads would do to our planet in the future unless we do something to reverse it. Moreover, personal cars are the reason we face horrendous traffic jam almost every day which kills our valuable time and negatively affect our productivity.
	To address these problems, some people suggest that the government should impose strict restrictions on car ownership and increase the tax on car purchasing to a staggering height. However, the mobility and flexibility of personal cars are essential in our life, and I am absolutely against taking any drastic measures. Rather, we should improve our public transportation facility to a great extent so that people prefer to use public buses and trains rather than driving. Another measure could be slowly increasing the fuel price that would deter many people from using and driving cars. Moreover, car manufacturers should invest in environment-friendly solar or hydrogen-powered cars to reduce the negative impacts of cars on the environment and the government should improve the roads to reduce traffic congestion.
	In conclusion, restricting the use of cars overnight might seem like a quick and effective solution, but practically speaking, it is not a proper solution. We want to use cars for the freedom of our mobility but have to come with eco-friendly cars to reduce their negative impacts.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3406-how-much-can-we-trust-the-journalists",
Essay 63:
	Access to the internet is easy in the modern era, and we can quickly get the latest news on our electronic devices - thanks to modern technology. Although I believe many journalists are honest and have genuine integrity to their responsibility and ethics, we cannot blindly trust all of them.
	In this digital age, competition in the journalism industry is fierce. In order to stay ahead in the business, some journalists may present news which they did not double-check or reports that lacks originality. It is also true that some journalists make clickbait news to attract attention from the public, which enables them to get payback from internet traffic. Therefore, how to distinguish reliable information is becoming increasingly vital for us because we cannot rely on every news or the reporter behind the news. For example, it is reported that five out of twenty pieces of news could be clickbait when we read news randomly from unverified news aggregation sites or social media.
	Having said that, we still have many honest journalists who present the truth to their readers and have courage and integrity. They take their profession as a responsibility to the people and are not scared of danger and threats. They even take risks and carry on tough jobs to show the truth to the audience. Such journalists are doing excellent jobs to make the world a better place. To give an example, journalists who travel to war-torn areas to give us the real picture of the event, or do investigative reports to publish corruption are doing commendable jobs.  
	In conclusion, we can do some cross-checking to make sure the news we read is reliable, because, in this day and age, fake news is ubiquitous. Numerous outstanding journalists are still working to reveal the fact to the ordinary public, but we should not trust every journalist as not all of them remain true to their duty and morality.
Essay 64:
	Due to the emergence of technology, we have online news portals besides the printed newspapers, and it seems like anybody can be a journalist with a dot com website which puts an already questionable profession under more scrutiny and doubts. While trusting journalists and their reports, we should always verify the authenticity of the news and use our common sense.
	Without reading newspapers and watching the news, we will be unaware of the world around us, and that is why newspapers play such a profound role in enhancing our knowledge. People who constantly work hard to bring that news and information to us are doing a tremendous job and they are often the reason we learn about corruption, global crisis, updates on an important national issue, and even the score of our favourite sports team. A responsible and honest journalist is like a soldier who fights a righteous battle to keep the citizens informed and eliminate corruption and unjust from society. However, not all of them are true to their responsibilities, and many of them put business and personal gains over ethics and responsibilities.
	When trusting a news report or a journalist, thus, we should always check the news source and the credibility of the reporter, especially in this era of modern technology where online news portals have grown and spread like mushrooms. Clickbait journalism and politically motivated news are constantly bombarding us with the help of social media, and they have primarily one goal in mind - making money by playing with our emotions and feelings. As informed readers, we must rely on authoritative newspapers and verify any news source before believing them. For example, I generally tend to believe the news I read on bbc.com, but sometimes I also check the news on other sources. Our common sense about news can be a big tool to filter out the fabricated news as we should read the truth even if it is something we dislike rather than reading false news which is exactly what we want to hear or believe.
	To conclude, we have good journalists and bad journalists, and it is our responsibility to be wary of non-authoritative news and not-so-credible journalists. We should also use our common sense to read news which is based on facts and truth.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3405-young-children-to-go-to-school-as-soon-as-possible",
Essay 65:
	There has been a colossal upsurge in prodigies discussing the topic of appropriate school-going age for children. While many of them believe that toddlers should start school as early as possible, others think that they should stay home until they turn six or seven. I, wholeheartedly, agree with the latter view.
	Many parents want their infants to join a school early, sometimes at 4 or 5 years old, so that they learn the fundamental things as soon as possible. Undoubtedly, this is the age when a child's cognitive development occurs at a full pace, and schools are expected to provide them ample opportunities to learn and grab new things as compared to home. In schools, these young children will learn important subjects like "Mathematics" or "English" as well as other essential behaviours and ethical aspects. It will help in shaping their future.
	On the flip side, children till the age of six or seven should spend time with their parents at home as they learn what they see, play with, or observe. In other words, they cannot distinguish between good and bad habits, and can be misguided easily at school by peers. In addition to this, pressure in schools may restrict their ability to play freely and learn from their surroundings. Schools are often accused of restricting freedom and following strict rules which is not a positive way of teaching young children. A recent survey in Washington has revealed that many school education policies put too much emphasis on formal learning and rob children of their creative abilities.
	To recapitulate, despite some benefits of starting school early, I think infants should not be sent to school until the age of six or seven to protect them from learning bad habits, while also providing them with more independence to cherish their childhood and learn naturally.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3380-main-purpose-of-public-libraries-is-to-provide-books",
Essay 66:
	Traditionally, a library is a place that shelves many books that readers can read or borrow. However, technological advancement and its tremendous effects on the way we learn new things and share information have redefined the concept of a library in recent days. Thus digital content and technological facilities are widely used in public libraries all around the world, and I quite disagree with the notion that these amenities are a waste of resources or space for a library.
	Opposers of high-tech libraries often argue that they distract readers and costs additional money. I, however, believe that libraries with modern facilities are far more useful to readers, and allow the librarian to manage its collection in a more organised fashion. Multimedia resources offer readers a dynamic combination of images, sounds, videos and virtual tours. Thus listening to a famous historical speech or taking a virtual tour at a historical site is far more interactive and exciting than just reading about them. Moreover, multimedia facilities and DVDs in a library may initially seem expensive, but they preserve valuable resources for a longer time and contain important information for future research and reference. To cite an example, a single DVD can store the entire volume of Encyclopedia Britannica which would otherwise occupy a large shelf of a library.
	Interestingly, a public library can actually save money and space and attract more readers with the use of technology and interactive contents. When they have computers and library management software, they barely need many staff members. Besides, it takes great effort to protect books from moisture, fire and human damages but digital contents can easily be copied and preserved for as many years as we want. As for attracting young generations, a high-tech library is more successful.
	To conclude, the transformation of public libraries have made them more beneficial to readers and researchers as they now work as centres for interactive learning and knowledge sharing. It is expected that traditional libraries would start including digital and modern facilities to enhance human knowledge and experience.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3379-encourage-people-to-protect-environment",
Essay 67:
	Ever since we realised our power to harness nature, we have started utilising it to make our life comfortable and more convenient. However, we then began to over-utilise this authority and damage nature to an extent that is catastrophic. Global warming and environmental pollutions are threatening our very existence on this planet, but we are neglecting our obligations to protect the environment. This is primarily because we fail to realise the real consequences of it and believe that it can be dealt with in the future.
	The first reason for this is our incompetency to understand the dire consequences of climate change. Despite frequent headlines on TV and in newspapers all over the world, for instance, we are still oblivious to the fate of the world. We work hard to save some money to build a house or have a car in the future, but we cannot fathom how many parts of the world would become unlivable due to global warming and pollutions.
	Another reason we are indifferent towards environmental degradation is our false confidence that it could be dealt with in the future. As a result, we are more concerned about solving more immediate problems such as housing shortage or traffic congestion than preventing the disaster that is only predicted to happen in the future. For instance, many individuals still believe that the rate of environmental degradation and global warming is not as severe as they are reported in the media, and technology that we will develop in the future would control it easily.
	These beliefs and attitudes are obviously mistaken and we need to act now to control the damage. The youngsters must be taught their obligations to preserve nature in schools and encouraged to plant more trees. Besides, the government should adopt strict laws that would prohibit citizens from using disposable goods that are harmful to the environment. Finally, the government can encourage people to make the environment greener by offering tax incentives and other benefits.
	To conclude, if we do not want to make our mother planet an unhabitable and barren place, we need to concede the real danger of climate change and act prudently to save it for us and our future generations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3255-most-important-aspects-of-job",
Essay 68:
	Many people contemplate their salary as the most salient feature of their job while others believe that their contributions to society through their professions hold more importance. In my opinion, a job should have ethical demands and needs to be passion-oriented. Otherwise, it would be futile to work merely for wages.
	Let us first examine why passion is a prominent part of people's professional life. No doubt, passion acts as the fuel that drives people to withstand the caustic side of their work. If people chose a job that is not connected to their passion, they will fall victim to depression and perform poorly at their jobs. On the other hand, if we examine successful people's stories, we would find that almost all of them have been in the career that they were passionate about. Suppose Bill Gates or Steve Jobs, both of them were tech enthusiasts, and therefore took technology as the means of their career.
	Besides, a job needs to be ethically demanding where people need to find something to do for humanity and society. Doing something for people not only will provide mental satisfaction but also will strengthen the purpose of their job life. Take Mother Theresa or Nelson Mandala for an example. Both of them are highly admired for their works for humanity and they did their best because they knew they were doing something for others and to make the world a better place.
	To conclude, salary is somewhat important for people to support their expenses but if they do not feel attached to their work, they will feel exhausted in their life. They will also be suppressed by the undue pressure that could have been avoided if they had the passion and ethical context in their job.
Essay 69:
	We cannot deny that we work to earn money so that we can put food on the table for the family. However, we also look for job satisfaction, growth opportunity and social recognition from our careers.
	Salary is important because without money we will not be working for a company at all. Some people are always after money and do not hesitate to change their job if they are offered a higher salary. However, to others, job satisfaction is equally important as it ensures work-life balance. Many people would not compromise their job satisfaction for the money they are offered. Many top executives, who resign from large corporations in order to work for smaller companies or run their own companies, are great examples of how much they value job satisfaction over the wages they earn.
	Moreover, "growth opportunities" is another aspect people often expect in their careers. A moderate salary and a great career growth aspect are far better than a higher salary and no career growth - according to many professionals, and they are prudent enough to envision the future than to run after only money. Finally, people often want to be in a career that is socially appreciated and valued. For example, a few of my colleagues left high-paid private jobs to take government jobs only because that would give them social recognition, and I quite understand the rationale for their decisions.
	In conclusion, besides salary, job satisfaction which ensures a work-life balance is also important. Moreover, career growth and social recognition often drive us to choose a job that brings us less money than we could otherwise make from other jobs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3131-plastic-money-replacements-are-extremely-popular",
Essay 70:
	Electronic transactions are gradually replacing the traditional banking system and the use of banknotes is being supplanted by credit and debit cards. The transformation toward a cashless society might be slow, but steady and widespread. This paradigm shift has both positive and negative aspects, and this essay deals with both of them.
	Primarily, electronic transactions and plastic card payments are more convenient and are processed on the go. People neither have to carry a bulk amount of cash nor write a check - which usually takes a couple of days to clear the payment. The electronic payment system is global in nature and hassle-free. Consequently, the eCommerce industry has flourished and many individuals have their own online businesses without any brick and mortar shops. For instance, nowadays it has become pretty easy to shop with a VISA or a Master card, virtually from anywhere in the world. Personally, I hate standing in a long queue to pay my utility bills, and my cards let me do it from home - a time saver indeed.
	On the contrary, the trend does not come without negative aspects. Although we can use these cards due to technological advancement, the risks of using plastic money, however, pertain to this technology. The primary threat to such payment mode is cybersecurity and hacking. For example, once a credit card is cloned or its sensitive data is hacked, the owner would suffer a great financial loss. A technology giant like Facebook has failed to protect its user data, for example, and the misuse of user data is a global concern. The same goes for plastic cards and online payment systems that have the same vulnerability.
	To conclude, despite some adverse effects, the use of plastic money for making and receiving payments is the need of the hour. It provides a plethora of advantages but we have to be careful of its use.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3125-it-is-unnecessary-to-teach-children-skills-of-handwriting",
Essay 71:
	Many people believe that handwriting skill is no longer important in this era of technology, and children do not require investing time to hone their handwriting, especially when they will most likely type instead of writing for the rest of their life. Unfortunately, this opinion is misguided. I strongly believe that handwriting skill is important even in today’s digital world.
	Good handwriting is important because when children learn to write clearly and concisely, they also learn how to express themselves properly. This leads to better academic and professional performance. I reckon handwriting is much more than simply putting letters on a page; it is a key part of learning and expressing ideas. Scrawls that cannot be read may be compared to speaking that cannot be understood. Handwriting is also important because children are required to use it daily in school, and those who struggle with the mechanics of handwriting may have trouble taking notes or completing their schoolwork. This can affect both their self-esteem and their attitude toward school. Good penmanship means better grades as studies show that the same mediocre paper is graded much higher if the handwriting is neat.
	More importantly, handwriting proficiency inspires confidence despite some people's belief that handwriting is not related to better academic performance. The more children practise a skill such as handwriting, the stronger the motor pathways become until the skill becomes automatic. Furthermore, handwriting aids memory. For example, if a person writes a list or a note and then loses it, he is more likely to remember what he wrote than if he just tries to memorize it.
	In conclusion, computer and digital data have no way replaced the necessity of handwriting skills. They are even more prevalent in this era of technology where good handwriting is related to academic performance and success, on the one hand, and inspires confidence, on the other hand.
Essay 72:
	Handwriting skills involve craftsmanship and an artistic way of presenting letters, and require a great deal of time and practice. Since students are more likely to type rather than write on paper for the rest of their life, I do not believe that this skill is prevalent in this modern era where computers are used both in the academic and professional arenas.
	To begin with, neat handwriting was a criterion for academic success in the past, but not anymore in this digital era. Assignments, classwork, tests and other school activities are mostly done on computers and this is why a student needs to grasp the skills of computing and typing more than presenting immaculate letter formations on paper. To illustrate an example, I  submitted three assignments during my last term and all of them were submitted to my teachers' emails, and not a single one was handwritten. Besides, time invested in honing excellent handwriting can be better utilised in mastering more important subjects and skills.
	Moreover, the use of computers and the Internet in offices is a common trend. An employee is expected to be an expert computer user, and immaculate handwriting is not a requirement to be hired by a company. Ironically, better penmanship has little value in a world surrounded by technology. Considering the future, when computers would be more predominant, parents and teachers should focus more on teaching technology to students than instructing how much a letter should be stressed or curved!
	To conclude, academic activities and professional needs, in this era of technology, compel students to have skills in computers and this is why it would be more practical to enhance their technical skills rather than handwriting skills- which have already become less important.
Essay 73:
	Good handwriting of pupils is one of the essential skills for their academic success. The dominance of technology has changed many people's views on teaching students the art of writing. But I personally disagree that modernisation and the use of technology have made handwriting skills obsolete.
	To begin with, good penmanship leads to better school performance in most cases. Also, it puts a solid impression on the readers or examiners. To exemplify this particular impression, 71 per cent of learners who have clear and nice handwriting, have good academic records and a reputation among schoolmates and teachers.
	However, considering the contrary point of view that good handwriting by children is useless could be justified as the predominant use of technology where most of the writing is done on computers. Moreover, skills in technology should be one’s goal rather than only giving preferences to handwriting.
	Nevertheless, only reading and speaking skills are not enough for better academic performance. Practising the topics by writing them on paper could be a much more efficient way to learn. For example, in mathematics, it is helpful to practice the problems and learn the formulas by writing. Additionally, writing is also a pivotal part of communication and this skill is necessary because research shows that when children learn how to do it, they also learn how to express themselves.
	To conclude, it can be summarized that learning to write is indispensable and should be taught to children. Amid the sea of typed materials and digital data, handwritten materials have their own dominance, hence, handwriting skills should not be ignored.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3120-country-becomes-interesting-develops-quickly",
Essay 74:
	Ever since the dawn of industrialisation, the ethnic landscapes of many developed and developing nations have changed remarkably, and several western nations these days have a more heterogeneous population than ever before. It is often cited that this diversification of nationalities makes a country more appealing and leads to expeditious advancements. I completely agree with this view, and this will be shown in this essay by analysing the copiousness of the culture brought in by different nationalities and how a country can utilise the distinct strengths of people from different races and nationalities.
	To begin with, the more diverse the nationalities in a country are, the richer its culture becomes. For instance, people from more than a hundred nationalities reside in Dubai and this leads to the availability of hundreds of different cuisines throughout the country. As a result, Dubai is called the ‘food capital’ of the Middle East. This, in turn, attracts tourists from all over the world who come to explore this richness in culture in Dubai. Hence, the contribution of having an amalgam of diverse types of people makes the culture of a country more intriguing.
	Besides, many researchers agree that people from different countries have different strengths and weaknesses. For example, Singaporeans and other Asians are generally better at math, while Africans are known for their strength. Countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom have harnessed these strengths of people from different races to become global leaders. Therefore, the benefits of having a mixture of citizens in a country’s workforce are obvious.
	To conclude, having a mixture of nationalities leads to the enrichment of cultures and faster advancement of a country. It is expected that more countries will benefit from this phenomenon in the future.
Essay 75:
	Cosmopolitan societies are thought to be more attractive to international tourists due to their diversified cultural aspects, and they are often considered to have a strong economy that develops faster. However, as far as I am concerned, a mixture of nationalities in many countries is still problematic.
	Admittedly, a culturally and ethnically diverse country attracts tourists from all over the world as the amalgamation of different cultures and their traditions, foods and lifestyles give birth to a truly cosmopolitan society. As a result of tourism development, the local economy grows to a certain extent.
	However, countries that include populations from different nationalities and cultures often experience social issues which lead to civil and political unrest and hatred for each other. People from different backgrounds view things differently and have their own opinion about "values". If not dealt with properly, it may cause ethnic conflicts. Iraq or the United States, for example, experienced such hatred for decades. Even worse, in some countries, it divides the nation as citizens start possessing discriminatory attitudes towards minors. If such a situation prevails, the country will soon lose international tourists who might be the main driving force for their economic boost.
	Moreover, the heterogeneous population in a country bring their own culture and thus the country loses its heritage and century-long tradition in the process. As a result, the country can no longer proclaim itself as a unique cultural landscape. For instance, many large cities in the world these days look almost the same and have no distinctive cultural identity.
	To conclude, multi-cultural societies are prone to create many social problems and the government should give priority to solving such issues whenever they emerge so that it does not lead to social unrest and ambivalence situations.
	Essay: A country becomes more interesting and develops more quickly when its population includes a mixture of nationalities.
	To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Essay 76:
	Global migration of people began with soaring industrialization and due to the major global wars. As a result, many developed nations experience the amalgamation of different cultures and traditions. It is often argued that this diversification of nationalities and cultures makes the country more attractive and helps the nation progress faster. I totally agree with this viewpoint.
	First of all, in a country with cross-cultural integrity, public areas, facilities and tourist spots are designed considering all inhabitants including expatriates. Shopping malls, entertainment centres, beaches etc. public places become more appealing and usable. The cities become global towns and bear the mark of truly diverse traditions and cultures. For example, in several countries many nationalities reside together and taking this in mind, a global village is designed for them. Such a global village attracts thousands of tourists around the globe and it claims to be the world's tourism, leisure, shopping and entertainment destination.
	In addition to this, cosmopolitan societies are better for the overall progress of a country. That is perhaps why nations such as the USA, Australia and Canada, which are primarily multi-cultural societies, enjoy greater prosperity, stability and harmony. The transaction between immigrants and residents would quicken the currency circulations and increase the demand for consumption - two essential elements of economic development. Thus a country with different ethnic groups and a diverse culture enjoy quicker progress and cultural richness.
	In conclusion, counties with different cultural backgrounds and nationalities are much more intriguing. It is undeniable that cultural diversity in a country should be considered a welcoming trend for the attractiveness and faster growth of a nation.
	Tips & Idea Generation for this Essay:
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3119-reducing-need-for-people-to-travel-from-home-to-reduce-traffic",
Essay 77:
	The most viable solution to the ever-growing traffic problem in urban areas, according to some, is to minimize the citizen's need for travel to workplaces, shopping malls and schools. However, I disagree with this viewpoint.
	First, all professionals can not work from home. Doctors, engineers, bankers, nurses, sales executives and many other professionals have to visit their workplaces and meet people to execute their responsibilities. Similarly, if we shop online, dispatch staff will still be on the road to deliver products. In addition to this, many professional courses require field studies and laboratory work and an online course cannot provide such facilities. Online courses cannot be compared with classroom teaching and the quality of the products cannot be judged just by the pictures on a laptop or a phone. Thus people need to get outside to do their daily work. Furthermore, if somebody is confined to one place for a long to avoid being outside for their daily needs and professional duties, he or she may develop physical and psychological problems.
	To truly tackle traffic congestion, we need more realistic solutions than restricting people's movement. One such solution can be improving public transportation. The convenience of public conveyance would discourage many to use their private cars, which is the primary reason for bad traffic in many cities. Furthermore, the government can encourage people to use an eco-friendly mode of transport, like the bicycle, by dedicating a separate lane for them. Many European and Asian cities, for example, already have separate cycle lanes and this has been truly effective in promoting environment-friendly vehicles and reducing traffic congestion.
	In conclusion, in order to minimize traffic jams, the authority should enhance mass transportation facilities and encourage people to use eco-friendly transport rather than planning to restrict people's movements.
Essay 78:
	Urbanization has brought the term traffic congestion into existence. A school of thought believes that traffic can only be controlled by limiting daily commuters' need for travel. However, I am not convinced that this is the only or the best way. Though it has some impact, other measures are required.
	Apparently, reasons that substantiate the claim that "the less frequently people travel in a city, the fewer traffic jam they create" - require thorough analysis. Firstly, city dwellers commute daily primarily for their study, business, job, shopping and social needs. Some of these could be done from home as the advancement of technology has made it possible to learn, work and shop online. This will reduce traffic to a certain extent. To illustrate, a survey conducted by the Australian Traffic Authority outlines that 75% of commuters in private cars travel for shopping, job and education, and it is clear that if people can work from home, do online shopping and enrol in online courses, traffic congestion would be reduced, if not solved.
	However, working from home is not permissible for a great number of professionals such as nurses, builders, doctors, police and so on. Therefore, they must travel to and from their workplaces daily. Moreover, online learning cannot replace the classroom-based education system, and online shopping is yet to substitute the traditional shopping method. Thus it is evident that controlling the necessity of travel for the day-to-day activities of citizens is not the only way to manage traffic problems. Improving public transportation, carpooling and encouraging pedestrians and cyclists could be some great solutions.
	To conclude, limiting city dwellers' needs for their daily commute may help control traffic problems to some extent, but other measures should be in place. The government should encourage people to use eco-friendly transportations to tackle both bad traffic and pollution.
Essay 79:
	Traffic congestion is perhaps a curse in many cities, and it kills valuable time on the one hand and degrades people's overall productivity and economic progress on the other hand. Since the main reason for traffic gridlocks on the roads is the overwhelming number of people who commute daily, limiting it to a reasonable extent is conceivably the best solution to curb the bad traffic.
	Admittedly, the government and city administration cannot ask citizens to stay indoors and arrange the "work from home" facility for every professional as making it a regulation would create confusion and discontent. Moreover, people need to get outside not only for their professional, shopping and educational needs but also to socialise. Thus restricting people's need to commute daily seems like an unrealistic idea to many.
	However, there are ways to implement it without creating confusion and dissatisfaction among citizens and curbing traffic problems at the same time. Since we need to reduce the number of commuters and vehicles on the road, which is the only viable solution to traffic problems, we can sort out the professionals who can work from home and then distribute the facilities like shopping centres, parks and banks to all residential areas so that people can get them within walking distance. For instance, IT professionals, lawyers, bookkeepers, customer service representatives, instructors and similar other professionals do not need to travel to their office daily as they can execute most of their responsibilities from home with the help of technology.
	Moreover, improving some facilities and digitalising many services can deter people from unnecessary daily commuting. For instance,  many parents travel to their children's school daily to drop them off and pick them up. If schools offer safe and convenient transportation facilities, parents would rely on such facilities rather than travelling daily. Similarly, banking, utility bill payment and help desk should be digitalised so that we can complete our tasks from home rather than visiting those offices.
	To conclude, traffic congestion in many cities is so big a problem that the authority is struggling to keep it under control. A large number of commuters and the vehicles they use are the primary reason for that, and it is expected that the government would facilitate people so that they need to commute less frequently.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3118-museums-and-art-galleries-should-concentrate-on-local-works",
Essay 80:
	Museums and art exhibits have long been at the forefront of preserving and representing cultural values and histories, being utilized by almost all countries throughout the centuries. However, whether they should mainly represent local cultures or display an international collection is open to dispute. I personally believe that traditional museums should focus on outlining the cultural aspects and artworks of the country while having separate museums with items from other countries does not hurt the national feeling.
	Educating people about the history and traditions of a country is the primary reason we have museums in the first place. They conserve important cultural specimens, artefacts, artworks and other items to boast about our past and help researchers dig deeper into history. Such museums, which primarily signify our tradition, should comprise things we, as a nation, can be proud of, rather than having internationally acclaimed artworks or sculptures. For instance, many national museums in Europe solely focus on preserving artefacts and artworks from the country and they are quite popular among international tourists.
	Having said that, the concept of a museum, in the modern era, has changed to a great extent. We now have aviation museums, war memorials, motor museums, computer museums, archaeological museums and the list goes on. To make these types of museums popular and useful, we have to have international collections. For instance, the Motor Museum in Australia has a collection from more than 20 countries and they serve their purpose just fine. Museums with international compilations often attract tourists and can be a great way to promote tourism.
	To conclude, national and traditional museums should focus on nurturing national history and heritage but we also need museums with international collections to make them more functional and famous. One does not necessarily diminish the necessity and usefulness of the other.
Essay 81:
	Museums and art galleries help visitors better understand the role of history, showcase important artworks, and preserve important collections at the same time. But many people opine that the collection should include only the artefacts and artworks of the host country. I disagree with this opinion since art is a medium to express thoughts and ideas beyond boundaries, and the history of nations is interconnected.
	Admittedly, museums and art exhibits exist to foster a better understanding of the importance of historical artefacts and arts in our lives and that is why national pride and archives should be emphasised to teach people their national history. But art is an important medium of free expression, and history extends beyond the border. So the collection of a museum should not be confined to geographical boundaries. For example, "Mona Lisa" is a legendary artwork by Leonardo Da Vinci who was an Italian artist in the 15th century. Despite being Italian, Da Vinci is an iconic genius for the whole world. Mona Lisa is now preserved at the Louvre Museum in France, and having this artwork and many other famous international paintings and sculptures, France can only boast of its fine collection that showcases masterpieces, great artworks and world history to the global audience.
	Moreover, history is not confined within boundaries and if this was the case, we would have taught our students only our national history. The fate of nations was interconnected throughout history and it still is. So when we want to teach our children about our history, we must teach them about international events. Since one of the primary objectives of museums is to teach people about history, they must have artworks and collections from the international arena. Finally, when we display artefacts and works from foreign countries, we are connecting nations all over the world. Each culture has something new to teach and the cultural richness of a nation depends on how they accept a new culture. From this perspective, having museums that comprise collections only from the host country is a bad idea.
	To conclude, museums and art galleries that have international artefacts and artworks besides having national collections are far rich and practical in exchanging cultural aspects and showcasing history.
Essay 82:
	Museums and art galleries essentially showcase significant histories and artworks to the general audience both to educate them and to preserve important artefacts. Though some people advocate for an international collection in such important places, I firmly believe that local works and national history should always get the highest priority.
	To begin with, a single museum can not represent all the important histories of the world due to space and budget issues, and the organisers of public art galleries need an exorbitant amount of money to display famous foreign artworks or sculptures. Thus, a museum should focus on becoming a place where people would learn about their own history and culture rather than being a place where they would wonder what the collections are all about. Visitors of a museum or an art gallery, which even include schoolgoers, should be able to relate the items they see so that they get inspired to foster nationalism and learn about their country, heritage and culture.
	Moreover, museums and art exhibits are frequently visited by foreigners who want to get a glimpse of the local culture and history rather than seeing items that they have already seen in other museums perhaps in some other countries. So museums and similar other places become more acceptable when they conserve local culture and present national history. For instance, most of the tourists in my country find the national museum more interesting than other museums we have because our national museum offers a true insight into our past and heritage. Finally, preserving national history and artefacts in a museum and encouraging aspiring local artists makes more sense.
	To conclude, museums and art galleries have significant roles in teaching people about their past and nurturing the talents of enthusiastic artists. It is more important that they have local collections and not foreign relics and arts which have little or no meaning to people who visit them.
Essay 83:
	Some people insist that museums and art exhibitions ought to focus on showing local works to visitors instead of artefacts and artworks from overseas. I, however, disagree with this notion and believe that exhibitions of a wider range of artworks, including foreign ones, are quite beneficial to local people and culture.
	The primary reason I disagree that museums and art centres should concentrate mainly on displaying local artworks is that it restricts the opportunities for spectators and artists to watch, enjoy and learn about diversified global artworks. Diversification helps citizens learn and appreciate various artworks which eventually enrich the culture of a nation. Since local museums are perhaps the most accessible venues for residents and aspiring artists to learn about arts, their collections should be as rich as possible.
	Another rationale behind my view is that art galleries would offer more benefits when they display artworks created in other regions. This is because exhibitions of galleries could thus let children comprehend brilliant aspects of different nations and their cultures. Art galleries are one of the most common destinations of school trips and the impressions that students get from these galleries may broaden their horizons. Thus, displaying diversified arts is imperative to develop children’s knowledge and understanding of other cultures.
	To conclude, a variety of artworks and artefacts in museums and art galleries would have more positive influences on cultural advancements and developing global perspectives of children and people alike. It is expected that museums and art centres would focus on these important issues when deciding the type of collection they are going to have.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3115-cricket-has-become-more-popular-than-national-sports",
Essay 84:
	Undoubtedly, cricket is the most popular sport in subcontinental countries because there is hardly any part of this region where cricket is not played and relished. Though they have their national sports, cricket has gained far more popularity. Hereby, I will throw some light on some of the possible reasons behind this phenomenon.
	The predominant reason for cricket being so popular among subcontinental nations is that this sport was introduced to them by the British during the colonial period. Most countries in this area became familiar with the rules and regulations of this game and started playing it and then ultimately became proficient in it. Moreover, these developing nations have imitated English culture for a long, whether it is style, language or sport, and the importance of the English language in these countries is convincing enough evidence of the fact that whatever was introduced by the English in their occupied countries continued to be flourished.
	Moving further, national sports like hockey, Kabaddi, Volleyball and so on have limited international tournaments, whereas cricket has various events like ICC Cricket World Cup, IPL, Ashes Series, ICC World T20 and many more. Therefore, cricket gets a lot more media coverage than any other national game in these countries. As a result, everyone has a special affinity towards cricket and cricketers as well, especially youngsters who have a profound passion for this sport. Teams like India, Pakistan, Australia, South Africa and Sri Lanka have been world champions multiple times while others are emerging powers in cricket. So it is only natural that they have a huge number of fans who enjoy cricket as a sport.
	To recapitulate, cricket dominates the sports world, particularly in countries like India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Australia and South Africa, which have gone through the influence of English culture during the English colonial era and where this sport is considered a part of national pride due to their success and fanbase.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3114-it-is-essential-to-learn-history",
Essay 85:
	People have different views about learning history and using the knowledge of history to shape the future. Although some people argue that studying history has nothing to offer, others opine that examining history has a great prospect for discovering our past and using the knowledge to shape our future. This essay investigates both views, but I am personally inclined toward the latter viewpoint.
	According to some people, learning history is a waste of time and energy. They believe that learning technology and science can bring significantly more benefits to humankind and the knowledge could be utilised for future development. History, on the contrary, has no utilisation in our daily life, according to them. For instance, science students can experiment and build helpful tools and devices, and this can lead to magnificent future inventions while pupils from history majors are imposed to memorize dates and events from the past.
	But this is not the whole picture according to many others. Learning history not only tells us about past events but also prepares us for the future. We can not expect to avoid a large-scale catastrophe if we do not know why it happened in the first place. In the 19th century, for example, Ireland suffered the blight of potatoes, known as the Irish Potato Famine, and it happened because the Irish were largely dependent on potatoes. Had they planted another crop, this could have been avoided. However, this unpleasant history has taught us a great lesson - to cultivate a wide diversity of crops. Finally, teaching history in school helps foster patriotism among the youth which is quite important for a bright future generation.
	In conclusion, people learn important lessons from experience and to build a prosperous nation, we must learn from our history which offers the greatest experience of all. Without knowledge of history, scientific discoveries alone cannot bring a wide range of advantages.
Essay 86:
	History, according to many, is the gateway to the past and a reflection of the future. Others, however, see very little value in learning history and emphasize the study and practice of more important subjects and fields like science, arts, technology, engineering and so on. I possess the opinion that studying history is not useful, and we should better utilise our time by learning technology and science, and important life skills.
	On the one hand, history offers us the opportunity to learn about our past society, civilisation, important national and global events, outcomes of major decisions, wars, social changes and so on. It helps us plan for a better future as the lessons learned from history can help us avoid catastrophes or plan for a brighter future. For instance, we can learn what triggered a major war or how a natural disaster caused havoc to people from history. Such knowledge and insights are important to prevent future conflicts and disasters. Moreover, many historical facts and findings inspire us to invent or discover new devices or theories to accelerate scientific and social progress.
	On the other hand, most students study and memorise important dates, names of people, events, causes and results of something etc. when they study history. People, outside of the academic arena, also study history mostly for the sake of learning about past events. Such studies have little significance in the practical world. Knowing how ancient people used to survive has almost zero value in survival in the modern world. So goes for the inventions as well- learning about past inventions has very little to do with inventing something novel. Moreover, human history is full of human conflicts and wars, and learning about them may discourage people from respecting our very civilisation. This is why, I wholeheartedly believe that people should invest more time learning and researching science, technology, engineering, and arts to bring about positive changes in their lives as well as in the society they live in. 
	To conclude, history can give us some details of the past which has very little value, in my opinion, to shape the future. It is more practical to learn and hone our knowledge and skills in science, arts and technology for a better future.      
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3112-university-students-should-study-a-full-range-of-subjects",
Essay 87:
	Universities, supreme citadels for building an enlightened generation, play a pivotal role in shaping a country's destiny. Thus the curriculum they follow to teach pupils has a profound impact on its overall outcome. Though some scholars believe that teaching a wide range of subjects at the tertiary level is far more beneficial than restraining the syllabus to a few particular subjects, I have reasons to disagree with this view.
	First of all, universities cannot teach all the subjects to the disciples and the notion of teaching them a great number of subjects is impractical. For instance, an average university has more than 40 departments or so and they are meant to specialise students in a particular field, not try to make them experts in all trades only to hopelessly produce mediocre professionals. Many public universities are already struggling to finish the course in time and if more subjects are added, that would simply make the scenario worse.
	Furthermore, a medical student, when forced to study history and poetry, would feel less connected to those subjects, ultimately ending with less specialised knowledge and skill. Similarly, a student from literature would find solving higher calculus a real challenge. The university already has its departments that pick students based on their merits and interests and the course offering should stick to that.
	Finally, someone does not need to excel in all subjects to do better in his profession. If an engineering student is interested in studying history, he can always do so even if the university curriculum does not include it. Many eminent scientists had little knowledge of other subjects and that did not deter them from changing the world forever, and this can be a great example of how specific subjects at the tertiary level can be more beneficial than the idea of adding a list of unrelated subjects.
	To conclude, the areas of studies, especially in this modern era, are myriad and thus adding a spectrum of subjects in every major is not a practical idea.
Essay 88:
	Some people advocate teaching university learners a wide range of subjects while others are in favour of making them specialised in a particular field with few subjects. I believe that teaching many different subjects make tertiary students better prepared for their career, life and society. This essay will outline my perspective.
	It is true that when university pupils have fewer subjects to focus on, they can learn those subjects better as they get more time to master the concepts of those subjects. This is why many universities around the world have introduced many majors like creative arts, robotics, fashion design, and genetics, to name a few, that have fewer credit hours and hence, fewer subjects to study. And it has produced some talented professionals who have excelled in these fields over the years.
	However, university education, I believe, is not meant to produce just skilled professionals who would work better in their respective job fields and make huge money. Rather, it should aim to create enlightened and knowledgeable individuals who would lead the nations in the future. This is why a doctor should learn the history of the nation so that he never forgets that his primary aim is to serve the nation and not make money. Similarly, if a software engineer has no knowledge of accounting, the financial sector would struggle to have useful software for their automation. I wholeheartedly believe that a university builds a strong foundation for a person to become a responsible and qualified individual and the more subjects they study the stronger their foundation becomes. 
	In conclusion, studying fewer subjects in a university seems like have some benefits on the surface but it does not serve the true purpose of university education - to create leaders and an enlightened generation. So it is expected that universities would introduce a spectrum of subjects to most majors to reap the maximum benefit.
Essay 89:
	It is often suggested that disciples of tertiary institutions should have a wide range of subjects in their curriculum rather than a few particular subjects. I, however, disagree with this viewpoint primarily for two major reasons.
	First, universities aim to provide specialized knowledge to their pupils, not enhance their general knowledge. Students are offered admission to universities after they complete many years of academic studies on various subjects. They are in a tertiary institution primarily to gain specific knowledge related to their field of interest. Giving redundant pressure by imposing subjects unrelated to their field can become a hurdle in achieving the required goal sets in their life. For instance, there is little relationship between sociology and mathematics. Mathematics majors will get confused while learning various aspects of sociology and similarly, sociology students will be reluctant to solve complex mathematics.
	In addition to this, many universities are already trying hard to maintain their recognized status and some are providing only specializations in a few subjects. The addition of more subjects to each faculty will add unnecessary weight, and as a result, there will be discordant opinions and actions among them. For example, 'Indian Institute of Technology Delhi' is among the top universities in India and provides specialization in scientific research and technology. If they are forced to add Arts related subjects to their science majors, they will soon find themselves struggling for their excellence.
	In conclusion, universities are meant for specialization and students should study subjects related to their major or which they feel interested in. The urge to add a spectrum of irrelevant subjects will detriment the true purpose of university education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3111-distance-learning-cannot-bring-benefit-as-attending-colleges",
Essay 90:
	Distance learning, a modern phenomenon, has become widely popular, especially after the invention of the internet. In the pre-internet era, it was confined to posts and TV and could attract a nominal number of learners. Despite a boom in home-based learning trends due to technological advancements, it is not as beneficial as attending a formal educational institute, as far as I am concerned.
	To begin with, university education is not restricted to some textbook lessons as it also focuses on creating an enlightened generation through a favourable environment where students learn to interact with each other, discover the diversity of cultures, and learn to face real-life challenges. Some video scripts and printed documents cannot teach them how to use those in the practical world. For instance, someone who learns a skill online finds it difficult to implement it in the real world. Thus their poor performance in professional life is imminent.
	Moreover, instructors have extensive experience in dealing with students from different backgrounds and modify their lessons according to the capacity of the students. This is completely missing in the distance learning method and thus the single-package-fits-all model is less productive. Taking an online course to learn to play the guitar could be a classic example. A recent study by the University of Sussex reveals that nine out of ten online guitar learners fail to master it due to the lack of motivation and this is where formal education comes in - motivating students. Taking distance learning courses for learning a programming language, or how to cook a cuisine can be useful for many but this can never be an alternative to the education we receive from colleges and universities.
	To conclude, we attend educational institutes to learn and become enlightened citizens, not to memorise lessons and pass exams. While distance learning can be a bonus to our already enlightened minds, it can never be the same as studying at a college or university.
Essay 91:
	Distance learning programmes and online courses have gained huge momentum after the invention of the internet and it has become a major tool for education during the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite some people's claim that it can never be as beneficial as the classroom-based education system, I beg to differ with the notion.
	The classroom-based teaching system has some distinct advantages which some people fail to achieve when they enrol in a course offered on a TV, or even on the internet. In such distance-learning courses, teachers do not directly interact with the learners and cannot assess the individual progress of participants. Assessment of learners' exam papers is also not always accurate as there is a possibility of cheating in the exam. This is why some people never consider online or distance learning as fruitful as the traditional face-to-face learning method.
	However, the global coronavirus pandemic, and restrictions due to this, forced us to adopt an online-based learning system to such an extent that people never imagined would happen. It has not only made learners get used to online learning but has also made teachers more adept at conducting online classes and exams. People now realise that online learning is a highly advantageous and less expensive way of learning and gaining skills. New tools like better LMS (Learning Management System), communication tools, exam tools, and assessment tools have revolutionised the whole concept of distance learning. It has also opened our eyes that technology has much to offer than just conducting online classes. For instance, during the corona pandemic, my younger sister's college adopted an online education and exam portal which they still use as the main method of assignment submission and conducting exams.
	Finally, online learning platforms enable people from any age group and any region to enrol in courses and develop their skills at a very affordable price. For instance, a housewife from India can take a graphic design course offered by a teacher or a group of skilled graphic designers from the USA. This proves how online learning is going to replace many traditional learning methods due to its immense possibility and global accessibility.
	In conclusion, the aspects that we have always believed online and distance learning methods can not offer have been achieved by technology and adopted by teachers and learners alike. Online learning is now mainstream and going to be as beneficial, and in some cases even more beneficial, as the traditional education system.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3064-consequence-of-improved-medical-care-is-people-are-living-longer",
Essay 92:
	Modern medical facilities and research in the healthcare sector have brought miracles to the world. We have cures for deadly diseases, and researchers are working with our genes to prevent diseases even before we are born - marvellous indeed! As a result, people these days live longer. This is an alarming trend according to some while I firmly believe that longer life expectancy offers far more advantages than demerits.
	Many people opine that higher life expectancy increases the ratio of the older population and shrinks the active workforce. Thus they believe supporting the old generation is a burden for the country. But, this opinion is misguided and not backed by facts. With an increasing life expectancy, people these days remain more active and contribute to society even in their old age. As the government has raised the retirement age, old people are no longer a burden, rather an active workforce. To cite an example, professors, researchers, lawmakers, writers and many other professionals have vast experience and could contribute even more in their old age. Thus, when a physicist discovers a groundbreaking theory in his or her 70s, we should thank the enhanced medical research and treatment.
	Finally, as the number of working parents is heightening, grandparents are the last hope for young children. Older people are doing us a favour by taking most of our family burdens. Besides, people who we consider no longer useful to society due to their age, have gifted us the world we live in today with their hard work, tax money and love.
	To conclude, thanks to the enhanced medical facilities for which we now live longer and be part of the progress. This enhanced life expectancy is a blessing for the human race.
Essay 93:
	Technological advancements have not only attributed to many new scientific discoveries but remarkably improved medicine and medical science also. This century is sanctified with comprehensive medical care, and the lifespan of people has enhanced and still increasing through modern medicines and treatments. I believe the result has blessed human civilisation and the disadvantages of increasing life expectancy are ignorable.
	Ultra-modern facilities and advanced medicines have transformed medical facilities and cured many deadly diseases. With an improved lifespan, people can contribute more to society. Early retirement plans let them start another profession as they are more active these days. For instance, many professionals these days start their own businesses after their retirement. This trend welcomes freshers to have jobs and eradicates unemployment to a great extent while also contributing to the national economy.
	Moreover, as a direct result of improved life expectancy, people can spend more time with their family and grandchildren. Working parents can leave their children in safe hands while at work. The way grandparents care for their grandchildren is incomparable to the attention they would receive from a daycare centre. So, we need our elder parents to be with us more than ever before. Finally, the way many see the elder generation as a responsibility to society is no longer true. These elder people can share their experiences that we can use to build a better and safer world. Older politicians, bankers, writers and researchers, for example, have far more to offer than their young counterparts.
	In conclusion, an improved lifespan profoundly benefits the family as well as society. We should feel obliged to treat our ancestors as they did for us when we were children. They are no longer a burden, but an asset to the country.
Essay 94:
	The global population will be eight billion soon, a staggeringly high number than the ideal population that the world can support, and advanced medical care has, on top of that, increased people's life expectancy, making the situation graver than ever before. Higher life expectancy, as a result of modern medical care, though thought to be a blessing, actually has more negative consequences on our economy and society. 
	The first advantage of increased life expectancy is that it allows people to live longer and let them share their experiences with the younger members. These senior members can also look after the children and contribute to developing their ethical and moral characteristics. Moreover, they can sometimes remain active and contribute to the national economy. For instance, many elders start a shop or a business after their retirement and it has a positive contribution to creating jobs.
	However, the disadvantages of a higher proportion of the aged population are profound and widespread. As the proportion of senior citizens increases in a country, the economy has to take more strain to support their living and healthcare. Moreover, higher life expectancy keeps more aged people in jobs and thus reduces career opportunities for younger people. The social consequences of this trend are also very high. Since young people are busy with their jobs, they have little time to care for their aged parents and grandparents. As a result, those people do not get enough time from their family members that they need. The youngsters also suffer from guilt as a result. This is leading us to a more selfish societal situation that we should avoid by all means.
	To conclude, advanced medical care has blessed us with higher life expectancy but has also created profound economic and social problems. I believe the disadvantages of higher life expectancy far outweigh its benefits when we judge things from practical, economic and societal points of view.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3057-shopping-malls-are-great-places-to-spend-leisure-time",
Essay 95:
	Gone are the days when shopping malls were purely for selling different merchandise, and people went there for buying and selling products. However, with the advent of modern shopping complexes, the trend has shifted, and many people spend their free time in shopping malls for various reasons. It has several positive impacts despite a few negative outcomes - I believe. This essay argues how this trend has enhanced people's shopping experience and enabled people to socialise. 
	To begin with the negative aspects of spending leisure time in a shopping complex - it makes people lethargic and forces them to avoid outdoor activities. For instance, people who meet others in a park, swimming pool or playground get involved in group activities which is a good way of doing different physical exercises. On the contrary, when people meet friends in a shopping mall, they either eat fast food or watch a movie - both of which lack physical movements. On top of that, those people usually avoid outdoor activities as they prefer air-conditioned indoors more.
	However, modern shopping malls have enhanced our shopping experience to a great extent. All the goods are available under a single roof, and they have a cosy environment and superior security. We can buy whatever we need at a completive price, eat our favourite dishes, try exotic menus, watch movies, play games, and even hit the gym located in such shopping complexes. Not to mention, meeting friends and relatives would be quite a cumbersome process had there been no modern shopping malls. Thus this trend is enormously beneficial to all of us. 
	Moreover, most modern cities, especially those in populous countries, hardly have parks, swimming complexes, or playgrounds. This is why people can meet others at a shopping complex, and it helps them remain social rather than spending too much time online. For instance, whenever a few of my friends from university plan for a get-together, a nice shopping complex in our city comes to our mind because it makes the gathering and experience enjoyable. 
	To conclude, the old notion of a shopping centre - just for buying and selling products - is no longer applicable in modern days since our expectations, lifestyles, and the availability of outdoor amenities have changed a great deal. So, spending free time or meeting others in a shopping mall should be treated as a welcoming trend due to its usefulness.  
	The establishment of modern shopping plazas in every nook and corner of the country, especially in cities, has inspired many to enjoy their spare time with friends and family, do some shopping, enjoy movies, and have meals together. Shopping for basic needs is an old trend, but it is changing rapidly and shopping malls, these days, are primarily recreational places for many. I believe this trend has an adverse effect on the young generation and frequent shoppers.
	Modern shopping centres play a quintessential part by offering various products under a single roof ranging from the smallest to largest and the latest equipment and gadgets, costumes, ornaments, all types of fruits, vegetables, beauty products, kitchen appliances and so on. Besides, these shopping complexes have movie theatres, coffee shops, kid's corners and food courts to attract more people to spend their free time. However, people, who frequently go there, knowingly or unknowingly are becoming shopaholics, consuming junk foods and spending unproductive time. This has a detrimental effect on people, particularly on young minds. They often skip their classes to meet friends at a shopping mall, have aerated drinks, eat junk foods and avoid participating in different outdoor sports.
	Furthermore, people's urge to purchase things they do not need creates a monetary asymmetry and put them in debt. When parents should take their children to a park or to a museum, they are actually taking them to a shopping mall and feeding them fast food. This will invite a disaster in terms of our future generation's health and education.
	To conclude, I believe that killing a great deal of time in shopping centres will become a stagnated issue in the future. I strongly feel that shopping malls should be used as a place for purchasing essential commodities rather than a place for leisure activities.
	To what extent do you think this is a negative trend?
Essay 96:
	Shopping malls, these days, are considered major recreational spots by many while most people used to visit them for necessity in the past. This new trend has many negative impacts on people and society as a whole. This essay will argue why it is completely unnecessary for people to spend their free time in the marketplace and how this is a negative trend.
	To begin with, modern shopping complexes offer many amenities and shoppers tend to enjoy roaming around different markets both for purchasing what they like and socialising. For instance, many pupils prefer to meet up in a shopping mall, watch a movie and later have snacks in the food court. They say this reduces the stress of the exams and makes them relaxed. Besides, with the decline of open places and parks, many families gather at large shopping malls to enjoy their holidays. However, this is a negative trend and has health hazards.
	As a consequence, the young generation tends to forget the beauty of nature and the stress relief provided by the outdoor world. This, in fact, drains out the energy of the youth and makes them lethargic. For example, a walk in a park or a day on a beach refreshes the soul more evidently than a day in a mall. Besides, due to the excessive affection towards shopping, many people become shopaholics and get into debt.
	To conclude, citizens should not spend their free time in shopping malls as there are better alternatives. It is hoped that people will go to a shopping mall to do essential shopping but spend their free time outdoors to enjoy the beauty of nature and take part in open-air activities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3040-best-way-to-learn-english-is-to-study-with-native-teachers",
Essay 97:
	As an international language, English already dominates the world. From this regard, people around the world learn this language and whether learning it from a native mentor is the best approach is controversial. Though direct guidance from a native English teacher can be of great help, I do not consider it the best approach as there are other better methods to learn this language.
	However, mentorship from native tutors is one of the ways to be fluent in English, not the best way. Self-study, exposure to English-speaking people and their cultures, online language courses, devotion and extensive reading habits can be more effective in becoming a good user of English. For instance, millions of self-made writers, journalists and interpreters have had no access to native teachers. Furthermore, passion to learn a language can often make someone versed in the language as these people invest a great deal of time to learn it from books and online resources. To cite an example, I studied in a school where roughly one in five students was from English-speaking countries but most of the composition contest prizes went to non-natives.
	To conclude, having teachers who are from an English-speaking country is undeniably a great way to have better exposure to the language but this is not the best way to become versed in English. Self-study, passion and digital resources can be more helpful in most cases.
Essay 98:
	The saying "if you want to learn the language, learn the culture first" is indeed true when learning English. From native teachers, we can learn the language in the best possible way because they can ingrain the culture of the language among the learners while also showing us the context of a word, or expression and helping us with the correct pronunciation.
	To begin with, native educators use the language in their everyday life, and they know the contextual meaning of a word or expression. This is why learners comprehend words and expressions with their contextual meaning - which is perhaps the best way to learn English because, in it, the same word can mean several different things based on the context. For instance, only a native teacher can explain what the word "terrific" means when used by a British. Furthermore, teachers, whose first language is English, can teach students the culture and history associated with words and sentences, and it is a proven way to enhance vocabulary and master language skills. To cite an example, a teacher from London, who taught us literature at our university, explained a couple of Shakespear's writing which, despite reading before, most of us had no idea about. 
	Moreover, a native teacher can teach better pronunciation than a non-native teacher. During my university days, I was surprised to find out how erroneous many of my English word pronunciations were. Thanks to a couple of native teachers who helped me with that. Finally, native mentors, unlike non-native teachers, focus more on the practical aspects of the language rather than forcing learners to memorise hundreds of grammatical rules. It makes learning more interesting and functional.
	In conclusion, the English language could be learned in many different ways, but when someone has the opportunity to learn it from native instructors, this is definitely the best possible way to master the language and use it in everyday life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3039-psychological-illnesses-may-not-be-as-obvious-as-physical-disabilities",
Essay 99:
	More than one-tenth of the global population suffers from some sort of psychological issue and yet mental illness gets far less priority than it deserves. Minor psychological issues are often ignored by the family while severe cases are inappropriately treated only to tag them as madmen.
	There is no denying that mental illness, compared to physical diseases, does not get proper care and acceptance from society all around the world.
	To begin with, the number of general hospitals and the specialist doctors and nurses devoted to treating diseases of our body is overwhelmingly higher than the healthcare centre and staff allocated for mental complexities. Someone just needs to walk a few blocks to notice a hospital in any city. However, this is not the case for clinics that deal with patients’ mental issues. This is huge discrimination when World Health Organization clearly outlines the number of patients who need psychotherapists, mental support and treatment for their psychological intricacies.
	Moreover, societal views towards a physically sick child are different than an autistic child. When the parents openly discuss the sickness of the former one, the latter tries to hide their children. This raises a serious question of moral integrity and social norm towards people who need special care. Due to the astigmatism of our social and healthcare system, we have so many cases of mental issues which go untreated. When each county increases its budget to research deadly diseases, there is scarcely any budget allocation for preventing suicides. For instance, the USA allocate a lion's share of its budget for the healthcare sector, but there is no separate allocation for preventing self-destruction, as this is not considered an illness at all.
	To conclude, the time has come for us to change the old dogma about psychological problems and understand that proper treatment for psychosocial patients is as much important as treating physically ill people.
Essay 100:
	Mental illnesses can significantly impact an individual's ability to function in their daily life, yet they are often invisible and harder to understand than physical illnesses. This can lead to society being less accepting of people with psychological illnesses compared to those with physical issues, and this essay completely agrees with this view. 
	While it is true that psychological conditions can be just as debilitating as physical illnesses, it is also important to acknowledge that physical illnesses are often more obvious, life-threatening and easier to diagnose. Furthermore, physical illnesses often have a clear cause and treatment plan, whereas psychological illnesses can be more complex and difficult to diagnose.
	However, it is important to note that the invisibility of psychological illnesses does not make them any less real or severe. People with mental illnesses often struggle with daily tasks and may experience a great deal of pain and suffering. This invisibility can also make it difficult for individuals to receive the support and resources they need to manage their illnesses. Society's lack of understanding and acceptance can also lead to stigmatization and discrimination, further exacerbating the struggles of those with psychological illnesses. For instance, according to a recent article published in the Women's Health magazine, nine out of ten women - who suffer from mental illnesses, think of ending their life at some point. This is quite disturbing considering the high percentages of such cases.
	Moreover, the number of hospitals, diagnostic centres, doctors and healthcare service providers that we have to treat our physical ailments is far greater than the number of psychologists or mental therapists we have. The discrimination is even more severe in poor and developing countries where people do not have adequate means to seek medical help when they are ill, let alone talk to a psychoanalyst about their mental issues. This discrimination clearly outlines the societal biases towards our physical illness than our physiological sufferings.
	In conclusion, it is crucial to raise awareness and educate people about psychological illnesses while also offering mental help when needed. This can help to reduce the stigma and increase acceptance and understanding of mental problems as they are not less severe than physical sickness.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3038-good-to-share-information-in-scientific-research",
Essay 101:
	In this era of "freedom of speech and democracy", restricting information for the sake of vague public security and national importance seems quite irrational to many when others opine that information should be available only when the authority deems them suitable for access. Both parties have their reasons for arguments, and I personally believe that scientific studies, the academic arena, and businesses can be greatly benefitted if the information is made open to them without restrictions.
	To begin with, sensitive information, that could penetrate state security, lead to public outcry, hand over technologies to terrorists and facilitates corporate monopoly in the trade sector, deserves to be scrutinized before making them public. In this digital era, information spread like wildfire and for the sake of maintaining global peace, it should be delimited, according to many. For instance, if nuclear technology is shared with all nations for scientific studies, the world will soon stand on the verge of obliteration, despite the inconceivable possibility this technology possesses to facilitate the citizens' energy demands.
	On the contrary, scientific research largely depends on available data and previous findings. If valuable information and past findings are not shared openly with academics and researchers, global progress will become a standstill. For instance, the Internet is probably the most significant invention the modern world has produced and if this technology had not been shared by the US military, we would still be living in the pre-internet era. Moreover, clandestine information has no value if it is not implemented in the real world and thus curbing them is like slaughtering the potential for progress. Finally, world history suggests that the human race has advanced due to discoveries and inventions shared with the world as each finding went through profound modification and advancement. I thus personally favour the ideology that supports "free information for all".
	In conclusion, information has limited value when it is constrained and not shared with great minds. For true global progress, restrictions on valuable information should be debarred and let people know the truth instead of keeping them in dark.
Essay 102:
	Some people favour sharing information for research works, business development and academic needs without any filters or restrictions. Others, however, feel differently and opine that sensitive and valuable information should not be shared in any case. Both parties have their reasons, and this essay opines that not all information should be shared even for scientific, research and business purposes. 
	It is understandable that when information is made available to organisations, scientists, researchers, and academics, they are best utilised. Since, those people work to bring innovations, restricting them to access important information can hinder progress. For instance, if expert economists are denied access to the state's financial data, they would neither be able to guide the nation for a better financial future nor can alert the nation in case of an imminent financial crisis.    
	On the other hand, some information should never be shared because it is undeniable that unfiltered access to all information can sometimes be catastrophic. For instance, if a state allows businesses to have unrestricted access to all the data related to citizens, the organisations would start violating citizens' privacy. They would start using the data for their business gains while also selling the data to other companies. Moreover, nations have intelligence and defence agencies, and if their findings are shared with academics and researchers, they would end up falling into wrong hands and thus compromising the state's sovereignty and power of defence. This is why, I personally believe that a state should share information that can bring innovation and help the nation progress, and at the same time, make some data restricted so that rough people do not have access to such critical and sensitive data.  
	In conclusion, information is immensely important when they are properly utilised and could also be destructive if they are misused by the wrong people. This is why the information should be shared for the betterment of the nation but some sensitive data should never be shared.
Essay 103:
	Some people advocate for making all information available in science, business, engineering and research as they believe that sharing information in such fields to the fullest extent possible will ultimately benefit society as a whole. Others, however, think that some information and state secrets are too sensitive to be shared freely. This essay explores both perspectives. In my opinion, important sectors in a country should have unrestricted access to important and useful data.
	It is important to consider the benefits of making information available for sectors that bring innovation and development to a nation. It is undeniable that by sharing new findings and useful data, society can progress and prosper faster. For example, after the discovery of the first antibacterial drug was made public, it allowed the entire world to benefit from its use as an effective medication against infectious diseases. Additionally, sharing valuable and meaningful information can lead to collaboration and progress in research, as well as the development of new technologies and products for a nation. It is also apparent that a society, where people have limited access to information, is less likely to become pioneers in technology, invention and research.
	However, there are also some valid arguments against sharing all information considering the sensitivity of the information in question. Intellectual property rights are an important consideration here, as inventors and researchers invest both their knowledge and significant amounts of money to achieve their goals. Publishing their findings prematurely can prevent them from fully reaping the rewards of their hard work. A good example is "Apple Inc." which invented different ingenious technological devices, and if the research data were published, it would not be able to earn profits as there would be competitors who would use the findings and compete in the market.
	In conclusion, it is important to appreciate the rights of individuals and businesses to protect their intellectual property, the progress and prosperity of a nation should get more priority, and ultimately, the sharing of information can lead to greater advancements and benefits for all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3032-international-sporting-events-contribute-greatly-to-peace",
Essay 104:
	Today's world is staggering under conflicts, terrorism and cross-border wars that make global peace a distant reality. Even in this gloomy moment, many people think that international sporting events can play an essential role in restoring to global peace and harmony. I agree with this viewpoint primarily because I believe that global sporting events have the power to bring people and nations closer, and promote the message of peace.
	It is sometimes observed that major sporting events create tensions and bring unfavourable outcomes like controversy, heated debate and misunderstanding. In such events, it may seem that such international sporting events make nations hate each other rather than bring them closer. However, such controversies are short-lived, and they are sparked among die-hard fans and online discussions while most viewers tend to enjoy the game and remain out of conflict.
	There is no denying that sports on such an international scale bring people together. Regardless of race, religion, nationality and gender, sports fans share the same passion and enthusiasm. And when they gather in a venue, they tend to learn from each other and see the human side of people. It brings them closer and gives them an extraordinary opportunity to share their sportsmanship quality and compassion for all people in the world. For instance, the Olympic Games event gives a perfect opportunity for athletes from all around the world to gather and display their athletic prowess to a global audience where people appreciate their performance and talents and forget their dissimilarities.
	Moreover, such global events promote the message of peace as the spirit of games overcome the barriers and conflicts nations have. This is why millions of people become one when their national team performs to bring glory to the nation. They forget the differences in their ethnicity, background and class, and it helps positively promote nationality; thus paving the way for peace and unity. For instance, when players of two rival nations like India and Pakistan, or Iran and the USA, show amicable behaviours on and off the field, millions of audiences learn to appreciate their relationship with the people of the rival nation. This is immensely helpful in paving the way to maintaining global peace.
	To conclude, major global sporting events not only bring people from different parts of the world together but also ease tensions and promote the message of peace. 
Essay 105:
	Major sporting events are meant for athletes and sportspersons to perform and bring glory to their nations while also positively promoting global harmony. However, it is a cruet reality that such international events fail to promote global peace and accord, and are often subject to controversy and conflicts. This is why, I disagree with the opinion that such international sporting competitions contribute positively towards global stability, peace and unity.
	To begin with, when players display excellent sportsmanship in a major sporting event, the global audience tent to enjoy the performance. Friendly relationships among players from rival nations also set examples for spectators. But, it has little impact on the politics of two rival nations and has very little to do with lasting peace among nations. For instance, millions of people enjoy when players of India and Pakistan perform in cricket stadiums. It often brings citizens of these two countries together, but it has failed to make any positive impact on the political relationships between these two nations.
	Moreover, major sporting events are the stages for competitions, and there is always a winning and a losing team. The same decision made by a match referee is welcomed by the fans of a nation while vehemently opposed by the supporter of another team. It is not a conducive approach to supporting peace, unity and brotherhood among people from different nations. Rather, it sparks argument and controversy. For instance, after most World Cup competitions, people have diving opinions about the decisions made by referees, and they never tend to agree with the opposing supporters. It has even sparked fights and conflicts in and out of the stadium.
	To conclude, international sporting events are great events to bring people of different nations to a common platform, but due to their competitive natures and controversies, they fail to help promote peace and harmony among nations.
Essay 106:
	Sports, in the past, used to be considered a juvenile activity confined to parks and indoors only. But sports, these days, have pushed the boundaries and attracted national and international players and audience by bringing people closer. So, there is no denying that sports have the power to unite the world and maintain global peace, and I completely agree with this viewpoint.
	Undoubtedly, sports at the international level play a sterling role in diplomatic relations among different nations. Owing to historical or political reasons, not all countries are at peace with each other. Admittedly, sports evoke similar pleasure and satisfaction as a victory in a war does, but it brings nations together. Moreover, global sports events can be icebreaker as competitors from nations create a common platform for global leaders, organizations, and athletes to interact in a more convenient and sophisticated way. A good illustration is the Olympic games in which the whole world can be brought together and this has a positive impact on maintaining global harmony.
	Furthermore, sports evokes high nationalistic passions towards the country along with providing a platform for patriotic emotions to be released. It is a constructive way to exhibit one's patriotic emotions. Even, international sporting events such as Commonwealth games bring recognition to small countries. For instance, it is difficult to know about the West Indies and Nepal, however, they are well-known countries just because of their cricket teams. By and large, the sport is the only activity that delivers a clear message of peace and paves the road to building world harmony.
	To reiterate, sports is a positive activity that kills negativity and brings peace and joy to the world by bringing people and global leaders together.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3030-certain-prisoners-should-be-made-to-do-unpaid-community-work",
Essay 107:
	Crimes, in many countries, have gone beyond the tolerable rate, and it is a common practice to incarcerate convicted people. A segment of society opines that not all crimes are equal and the repercussion of harsh sentences for all offences is uncivilised. They outline the need for unpaid community service as punishment for mild offenders and youngsters, and I also believe that certain offenders should be given non-custodial sentences.
	The predominant reason for me to believe in voluntary community service like cleaning streets, planting trees, and working for charity instead of the prison sentence is that many offenders are not born criminals, and circumstances often push them to commit a transgression. Besides, when such unpremeditated convicts are expelled from society, they incline to re-offend in isolation as there is none to accept them. Apart from this, juvenile delinquents should be rehabilitated by indulging them in community services. A recent study reveals that many youngsters who had been in prison for a long time often end up becoming even bigger criminals.
	However, brutal offenders who commit heinous crimes like premeditated murder, vandalism, abduction, hijacking, rapes and so on should be punished to set examples in society. Thus, the background of a criminal and the motif of a crime should be considered. For instance, if a teenager steals food from a store as his mother is starving is a completely different crime than someone robbing an old lady and stabbing her violently. The former deserves a second chance while the latter should be imprisoned.
	To recapitulate, someone with no previous record of crime and a sensible reason for minor misconduct should be treated differently than a serious offender. The objective of the law is to maintain peace in society, not to punish people. Thus unpaid community service is a great option to let some convicted lament their crime and do something good for society.
Essay 108:
	Some people may commit a crime for self-defence or for a reason that can be justified when considered from that person's point of view. For example, many people speed drive because they have to reach a hospital quickly. In such cases, a prison sentence, especially for first-time offenders, seems a rather vicious penalty. The same can be said for someone who fails to pay a government fee due to financial problems. On the surface, they seem a crime, but not so severe when judged by the person's circumstances.
	However, our judicial system works in a systematic manner and considers the intent of committing a crime. Thus a drunk driver who crosses the speed limit and someone who does so to reach a hospital to treat an ill elderly are not treated equally. And light offenders are always given a chance to defend themselves. They are often just fined an amount of money rather than being behind bars. Since we already have a system to punish serious offenders and just reprimand light offenders, we do not need to award community work to certain criminals.
	Moreover, community work, as an outcome of a crime, fails to rehabilitate a convict mainly because such works are too light to make the offender regret his or her actions. The jails are made to reform someone when that person is considered a threat to society. And if they are not isolated, properly counselled, and given the time to repent, they will most probably commit even bigger crimes over time. For instance, according to a recent study, almost 30% of juveniles who are just given community or voluntary work for their minor offences often end up committing bigger crimes.
	To conclude, our law and judicial system consider the intent and circumstances of a crime and award punishments accordingly. So we do not need community work for crimes because this approach lacks the main objective of rehabilitating criminals.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/3029-maintain-and-protect-beautiful-building-of-the-past",
Essay 109:
	Historical buildings are valuable treasures for a country and should be preserved even if the government needs to spend hefty amounts on them. I completely agree with this viewpoint and my position is outlined in this essay.
	First of all, old and traditional buildings are of great architectural importance. Their sublime design attracts tourists and locals alike and is quite rare in modern structures. These historical edifices also give us an opportunity to learn about the glorious past. For example, the Roman Colosseum in Rome not only shows how awe-inspiring the ancient architectures were but also points out a massive arena used as a stadium for gladiators' fighting and has space to house around 50,000 spectators in tiered seating. This structure is a predominant representative of Roman culture and civilisation that modern historians cherish profoundly.
	In addition to this, historical monuments also serve as tourist magnetism in many countries. In today's world, many people plan their vacations in places of historical importance as they are curious to know more about the culture and traditions of the past. Many nations are benefited from these tourists, and as a result, they possess a booming tourism industry. For instance, millions of tourists including international tourists visit the Taj Mahal in India every year. This provides the government with a huge profit and also employs many locals, thus assisting the government financially.
	To conclude, I believe, it is worth spending money on ancient buildings as they not only possess historical importance but also a financial kernel for many governments.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2972-your-first-impressions-when-you-meet-someone-are-always-right",
Essay 110:
	First impressions, without a doubt, have great importance, but they do not always reveal the true characteristics of a person and I believe that first impressions are not always accurate. This essay discusses why first impressions may often be deceptive and less important in judging someone.
	To begin with, first impressions often reflect a great deal of information about a person, especially if we meet this person all of a sudden. We can judge him from the way he dresses, speaks, starts a conversation and expresses his views. This is often the true reflection of a person's character. But this can often be ambiguous. For instance, my experience has taught me that people who become friends very quickly are less serious about a long-term friendship though they give an opposite impression on their first meet.
	Moreover, people try to behave modestly, act friendly, show compassion and exhibit their positive sides when they meet someone for the first time. Only a long-term observation can express their true nature and intention. From this regard, I would not agree with the view that my initial impressions about someone are always right. I believe we can learn many things about a person only when we spend time with the person, and can understand their true colour when we see and meet them closely.
	To conclude, people are one of the greatest mysteries in the world and judging someone at the first meet is kind of irrational. No doubt a great deal about someone could be learned from the first encounter, but this is not always right, at least not in my experience.
Essay 111:
	Two lines of thoughts exist when it comes to the significance of first impressions, and for many, they form the basis for judging a person’s personality and background. I believe that first impression is important to some extent; however, my support is in the favour of knowing the person better instead of establishing the judgments just on looks and dress-up as I support the more holistic way of getting to know people.
	To begin with, I believe that first impressions give just a glimpse of somebody’s character. There can be a variety of underlying factors and reasons for which the person might behave in a particular way. If someone, for example, does not initiate a conversation and does not smile at a party where it is required to mingle, it could be because the person is ill or have some sort of personal crisis going on. Judging by first impressions, that person can be easily labelled as arrogant and unfriendly. However, if someone makes an effort to know the person and the reason behind being a recluse in the party, the former judgment is entirely reversed. In addition, outer appearances change and evolve but the inner personality remains almost the same. People who form their perception on the basis of fleeting outer appearances are often mistaken.
	On the contrary, in some instances, for instance, a job interview, first impressions are of foremost importance. Recruiters are specifically trained to sort potential employees based on the first impression. The first impression not only includes the way of dressing, but also the way a person speaks and carries himself.
	To conclude, although there are instances where first impressions matter and needed to be taken into account, I strongly believe that it is always prudent to get to know a person better before jumping to a conclusion.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2929-should-education-and-healthcare-be-free-of-charge",
Essay 112:
	It is irrefutable that a country's growth largely depends on how educated and healthy its citizens are. The burgeoning population and the lack of funds often make it harder for the authority to bear the expenses of their needs, especially in education, housing and treatment. I believe that an effective solution would be to divide the expenditures between the government and the individuals.
	To begin with, education, nowadays, plays a vital role in the development of a society. Not only it creates job opportunities, but also help people become aware of the socio-economic issues of the country. Making education free till the age of 18 would encourage the pupils to finish at least their secondary education. For instance, the percentage of student enrollment in schools in 2011 in my country increased by 19% than that of 2009, and it was because the government exempted fees for students in these classes.
	Moreover, the healthcare system can also be improved by providing either health insurance or schemes that cover a minimum of 50 per cent of the cost. Thus people would not feel that healthcare is expensive while the government would not need to bear the expenses alone. A healthier nation can help the country achieve greater heights as citizens in such countries are more productive. Consequently, economic growths will get bolstered and the government would be able to become self-reliant.
	To conclude, with the implementation of the said measures there would be no burden on either the government or individuals. Both the government and individuals can go hand in hand to cope with this and build an enlightened and healthy nation.
Essay 113:
	Healthcare and education are two fundamental rights of every human being, and they are essential for the development of a country. Who should, however, bear the cost of healthcare and education - the public or the government, is controversial. But, I sincerely believe that the government should take responsibility to ensure free education and treatment to its citizens.
	To commence with, the government is not the authoritarian ruler of a country, not at least in this modern era. Rather a country has an administrative system so that the country runs properly, the authority can take development initiatives, laws and orders are maintained, citizens get their basic rights, and the country stands proudly among the world nations. If this is what the management wants to achieve it must alleviate people from poverty through education and training, and offer highly effective healthcare facility, without which the country and its tradition would crumble. Giving responsibility to its citizen to take care of their education and healthcare would be the last thing a government should do.
	Moreover, without ensuring education for all, no country can achieve growth and eliminate poverty, and keep pace with the world. Education not only helps people become financially independent but also enlighten them. On the other hand, proper healthcare makes a healthy nation that eventually contributes to building a better nation. The struggling education and healthcare systems in many poor countries, for example, are the main obstacle to their development.
	Finally, the government collects a staggering amount of revenue from direct and indirect tax each year. If this tax money is not spent on educating the taxpayers' children or ensuring their proper treatment, no other policy can better utilise this money. Besides, poor citizens rely on the government when it comes to changing their fate and keeping them well. Without ensuring education for their children and offering them healthcare services, the government fails to keep its promises.
	To conclude, healthcare and education are fundamental rights of citizens, and the government must ensure these two rights to them to fulfil its obligation to the nation and to help the country develop.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2887-children-have-less-responsibility-compared-to-the-past",
Essay 114:
	How much responsibility a child should take and whether modern children are less interested in executing their duties and obligations is disputable. While offsprings in some countries still take many responsibilities, a great number of them, in other countries, are busy with their education and hobbies. I believe that the way children take responsibilities has changed over time, mostly as a positive development, and to what extent a youth should carry out these liabilities should be determined by the family and social condition.
	To begin with, the social, economic and family structure in the past, in most of the countries, forced parents to distribute responsibilities among children and it was common for many young children to work hard and take care of younger family members besides their education. These young children learnt how to manage budgets, share with other family members and take challenges in life. Those important lessons, according to many, are no longer spread among the modern young generation and thus they become more selfish.
	However, with the change in the family structure and social norm, people these days want their children to excel in education and other creative fields rather than taking care of the family and finishing house chores. Joint family predominated society and parents had more children in the past. With the rise of the nuclear family and one-to-two-child-family policy, parents now focus on children's education, unlike in the past. In my opinion, blaming children for not taking responsibilities is an impartial judgement as modern children have far more pressure from schools, society and parents. They are not expected to earn money or do household works in a well-to-do family. With the increasing literacy rates, gender equality, women empowerment and a better lifestyle, the trend has more positive outcomes, without a doubt.
	To conclude, these days, we want our children to be the best scorer, best athlete, and outshine in everything they do unlike the past when parents wanted assistance from their offsprings to support the family. Thus the changes have brought numerous developments, and the move was inevitable with the paradigm shift of social structure.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2886-governments-spend-a-lot-of-money-on-public-celebrations",
Essay 115:
	Commemoration of important national events is a part of a nation's pride and a way to show respects to its tradition and history. Such events are instrumental in motivating the new generation to be patriots and bestow tribute to people whose contributions are unforgettable. Thus the amount spent on such celebrations is justified.
	To begin with, public ceremonies are important in terms of spreading nationality, giving mass people a reason to forget their differences and improving public relations. The amount spent on such events is often disputed by many, but this opinion, is in no way, practical and the importance of observing national events is unparalleled. These celebrations, for example, teach us who we really are, how much our ancestors had sacrificed to give us a better country and how we are all connected as a nation. In my early childhood, I did not show an acute interest in the history of our country until I noticed the way people observe Independent Day and how the whole nation remembers the sacrifices of the martyrs from our country. We need to celebrate our significant national days to pass the history to the next generations.
	Now getting back to using the fund on more important things - a government already has a plan in place for disaster recovery and using funds for important sectors. Each sector in a country already gets a share of the national budget and we need to focus more on prudently using the fund for true development, not switching fund from one important sector to another. Finally, festivals are people's fundamental rights and a government should always support such public festivals including religious and national galas to prove that the authority works for the public, not against them.
	To conclude, public celebrations and a government's role to organise it and using the national fund to support it has a great influence in fostering nationality, showing a government's support to the people and this is why the amount spent for such events is essential.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2885-some-universities-now-offer-their-courses-on-the-internet",
Essay 116:
	Online education is a comparatively new trend and thousands of educational institutes have already embraced this method to offer their courses. While some negative aspects of this development could not be ignored, the advantages of it far outweigh the demerits.
	To begin with, many universities in developed countries offer online degrees and short courses, and they have started doing so only after proper research. The research proved that Internet-based courses are advantageous both for the students and teachers. The intuitive and methodical lessons offered by an online course is planned by several university teachers and technology experts and hence they maintain a rigid quality. The widespread use of the Internet makes it handy for people to enrol in a course without considering time and distance. This trend has attracted thousands of professionals, housewives and elderly people to continue their education or take courses of their choices. For instance, as many as twenty-five thousand housewives in the USA complete their preferred online courses and diplomas in a year. Attending traditional classroom-based courses were impossible for this large number of housewives and busy professionals.
	Moreover, Internet-based courses are easier to follow and someone can retake the same lessons over and over again, unlike traditional classes. Thus many students have reported the Khan Academy, Linda, and Udemy, renowned Internet-based online course websites, to be their preferred learning tools. Many skill-developing online courses, for example, have assisted thousands of young people to pursue their career in technology and this has all been possible with Internet-based learning.
	The downside of this trend is the cost and lack of proper supervision by a teacher. Courses offered by prestigious universities are often far too expensive for a poor student to bear. Teachers' guidance and motivation often play a great role in a pupil's success and the online course cannot be a suitable substitute for the motivation teachers can offer.
	To conclude, technological advancements in education, especially online education, is a great leap towards a world without illiteracy and unemployment. Hence, this is such a positive development though it lacks a teacher's motivation and direct supervision.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2853-does-renting-a-house-have-more-advantages-or-disadvantages",
Essay 117:
	Choosing a place to live in and whether to rent it or own it is a big decision to make. Many people prefer to own a house rather than living in a rented apartment while others choose to do exactly the opposite. I believe that owning a house has far more advantages than renting an apartment.
	To commence with, people often rent a house because purchasing a property requires a great deal of money and the skyrocketing price in big cities makes it impossible for many to own a house. These people naturally rent an apartment. There are certain advantages to living in a rented apartment. First of all, the person does not have to pay a huge sum of money at a time and does not need to pay housing taxes and bear the costs of maintenance. Moreover, such people can change the living place based on the location of their workplace and children’s school. The renovation of the apartment is the landlord’s responsibility and the tenants do not need to worry about it.
	On the contrary, owning a house gives a sense of personal achievement that tenants cannot enjoy. A house is a permanent asset and with time its price increases. The landlord can rent the house and this can be a steady source of earning for him. Furthermore, being the owner of a house means there is no one over the shoulder to watch what someone is doing and no sudden notice for evacuation. For instance, we had to vacate our apartment all of a sudden at least thrice until we purchased our own house a decade earlier. This is some sort of freedom that only house owners enjoy. Besides, the owner can construct and design the house the way he likes and enjoy open space, garden, and other facilities in the house.
	To conclude, renting a flat has some benefits but the overall freedom and monetary compensations house owners enjoy are far significant, and this is why every tenant dreams to own a house someday.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2852-in-some-schools-and-universities-girls-tend-to-choose-arts-subjects",
Essay 118:
	According to the traditional belief, men are the breadwinners while females are caregivers and responsible for taking care of the family. This belief, along with some old-fashioned views like boys are good at mathematics while females are not, is the primary reason for many parents to encourage their sons to study science while daughters art-related subjects. I wholeheartedly believe that this trend should change.
	To begin with, it is generally believed that boys are good at science-related subjects. This view is rooted so deep in our society that many females have already accepted it. This is more prevalent in developing countries where parents expect their sons to have a career while daughters become moderately educated and finally get married and have a family. Strangely, studying in science majors require more money in most countries, and this is why parents naturally select their boys to study science. Females, on the other hand, need to take many responsibilities of the family even during their student life and prefer to have subjects that do not require a great deal of study, as they consider it.
	Men and women have similar capacities and hidden potentials. Given the equal opportunity, many women would excel in science-related subjects. Great scientists like Marie Curie, Ada Lovelace, and Emilie du Chatelet have proved that women are no less capable than men when it comes to science. The heinous trend of gender discrimination, even in the education sector, should stop. The good news is that women in many engineering and technology subjects are already occupying half of the seats in many prestigious universities. Thus the day is not far away when the social custom or emotional aversion of parents would accept that their daughters are just as talented as their sons are in any area, including science.
	To conclude, women empowerment is quite an essential factor for the overall development of a nation, and that is why females should get a fair chance to participate in any subjects, including science majors, in schools and universities. This trend would bring more positive outcomes than restricting their fields of education and work.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2851-it-is-necessary-for-parents-to-attend-a-parenting-training-course",
Essay 119:
	Parenting is perhaps the greatest responsibility of our life and mistakes and wrong decisions as parents can ruin a family as well as the future of a child. Since many young people become parents and the number of nuclear families is on the rise, many experts emphasize the importance of parenting courses for both fathers and mothers. I personally agree with this notion as I believe that such sessions would be immensely helpful.
	To begin with, proper parenting requires a great deal of knowledge and dedication. Sometimes minor negligence and lack of knowledge can lead to catastrophic outcomes. For instance, if busy parents forget to vaccinate a newborn, that would jeopardize the offspring’s life. Similarly, many parents believe in silly superstitions that influence them to make bad choices. If those parents attend a course where experts share their opinions on different aspects of child fostering and proper parenting, they would be highly benefitted. For example, my cousin Paula, who became a mother a few months ago believed that her child had a problem with digestion and need medical attention. However, it was revealed that the way she fed her daughter was not correct. I believe that a suitable course that brings out different aspects of upbringing a child, both moral and practical aspects, would prove out to be important for newly become parents.
	Moreover, the increasing trends of single parents and nuclear family lack the expert opinion of the grandparents, unlike in the past. This is why the need for such parenting sessions has risen even more. Such sessions bring parents together, let them share their views, forms a social relationship and help people learn the real facts about their personal prejudices. This is a great way to educate the "to-be-parents", and "newly-become-parents" to learn more about the practical aspects of parenting. It also makes a better society, in a broader sense.
	To conclude, being informed and educated parents is an important aspect to become good parents. Since parenting courses help people in a diverse way, it is indeed a good idea for people to participate in such courses.
Essay 120:
	Raising a child is considered a beautiful experience by parents and newly become parents often find it difficult. Though some parents feel that training classes on parenting will help them nurture their child properly, I believe otherwise. This essay will argue why it is unnecessary to undergo parenting training sessions in order to nurture one’s child.
	In today’s fast-growing world, parents believe that coaching on parenting and professional advice will help them responsibly raise their child. The reason parents feel the need for such courses is mainly because of the busy lifestyle and the growth of nuclear families. They neither not talk to their parents and get advice, nor are they confident enough in their ability to look after their child. For instance, in India, certain institutions provide full-time classes on parenting and their demand is increasing. Distance from other senior members of the family is the main reason so many parents turn to such institutions.
	However, being a parent is a natural and wonderful experience that does not require any training. As soon as a couple enters the phase of parenting, the ability to raise their child is naturally born in them. It’s just the confidence that is required and rest is attained gradually. Parenting needs are not the same for all and thus a predefined course is insufficient for many couples.
	To conclude, the parenting ability is naturally inbuilt in every individual and one has to just figure that out in order to raise their child and this has to attain through expertise, not from theoretical courses.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2850-instead-of-preventing-climate-change-we-need-to-find-a-way-to-live-with-it",
Essay 121:
	Perhaps the greatest threat to the world is not the atomic bombs, the regional conflicts, terrorism, an outbreak of population or political instability but the climate change and environmental degradation. If we do not address this greatest danger properly, we will be responsible for our own extinction, and I do not believe that we should let it happen by doing nothing about it.
	To begin with, the rising temperature, Arctic ice melt, deforestation, uncontrolled industrialization, air pollution and depletion of the ozone layer are all connected and would lead to a single event- the destruction of the world. We have already harmed the environment to a great extent and the time has come for all nations to work together to reduce the environmental damage. The sudden flood in the USA, intense storm in Asia, unpredictable droughts in Africa are all resulting from climate change and this change is occurring rapidly than ever before. If we let this continue, the future would be even more perilous. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, consequences of climate changes include the increased intensity of storms including tropical cyclones, increased risks of drought and, wetter Asian monsoon, and, possibly, more intense mid-latitude storms. According to a recent report, global warming would cause sea levels to rise up to 4 feet by 2100 and many countries including some South Asian countries would suffer greatly from that.
	The last thing the human should do to turn a blind eye to this imminent problem and learn to live with it, of course, unless we want the termination of the human race, that would be a whole different issue. There is a lot to do and we should start implementing regional cooperation right now. Every individual should contribute by emitting fewer fumes and planting as many trees as possible while the use of fossil fuel should be globally prohibited. Industrial countries have more responsibilities as they contribute more to environmental degradation and an international panel should be formed by giving it a supreme power to make any legislation to kerb the environmental damages.
	To conclude, for our existence on Mother Earth, we should take immediate actions both at individual and international levels to check climate change. Otherwise, we will fail to save our planet and future generations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2849-schools-are-spending-more-time-teaching-traditional-subjects",
Essay 122:
	School curriculums may vary from school to school, but their primary objective is the same everywhere which is to educate and enlighten students. However, some people claim that school should focus more on job-oriented subjects rather than teaching traditional ones like arts and history. I personally disagree with this view and believe that traditional subjects are just as important as skill-oriented subjects are.
	To begin with, ‘job-oriented subject’ is itself an inexplicit term. Some would say that subjects that enhance practical skills like computing or gardening are job-oriented subjects, but no one can assure that all students in a class would become computer engineers and specialists in planting and gardening. That is why forcing pupils to study subjects that they do not feel interested in would bring negative results.
	Furthermore, schools are meant to nurture young students’ creativity, foster their talent to let them explore their true potential. From this perspective, imposing job-related subjects is like killing the inner soul of the future generation. Finally, if schools can bring diversity among students and inform them about different perspectives of life, the students would themselves choose their career and transcend in future. So there is no need to create a robotic generation with a particular skill only.
	Arts and history are as much important as any science and technical subjects are. The study of history empowers us to be prepared for the future and learn from our past mistakes. Similarly, arts and other traditional subjects allow us to learn to appreciate life. We revere Van Gauge and Leonardo da Vinci as much as we admire Sir Isaac Newton and Einstein. The world needs great artists and historians no less than it needs scientists and technicians.
	To conclude, schools should equally focus on traditional subjects and skill-oriented subjects and nurture students’ hidden potential to prepare the future generation to become leaders, not corporate slaves.
Essay 123:
	The curriculum for schools has become a matter of great concern as it directly influences the quality of education. Some people opine that academies should focus on job-oriented subjects that prepare pupils for a good career whereas others think that learners should be cognizant of their ancient path, tradition and heritage through learning arts and history besides their career preparation. This essay argues why it is necessary to emphasise traditional subjects, which are just as important as employment-oriented skills.
	Many schools primarily concentrate on subjects that help students improve their skills and get ready for jobs. This is mainly due to the present competitive world where people face cut-throat competition in securing a job. So people assume that developing practical skills from a younger age will help students perform well in professional life. For instance, some schools in India have adopted certain subjects that focus mainly on attaining a medical degree and thereby become a better physician in the future.
	However, it is essential for students to learn history, arts and similar subjects along with skill-oriented materials. Knowledge of culture and history allows students to become leaders than becoming corporate robots. For instance, the contribution of an explorer, leader and social worker is no less than that of a doctor or an engineer.
	In conclusion, the primary objective of education is to prepare the young generation to build a better world through their diverse contributions, not just become money-making machines. This is why arts and history are just as important as skill-related subjects in the national education curriculum.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2848-buying-things-on-the-internet-is-becoming-more-and-more-popular",
Essay 124:
	To begin with, online shopping enables consumers to get a service or a product from home. They no longer need to travel a long distance or wait in a long queue to pay their bills or withdraw cash. With the widespread use of hand-held smart devices and the Internet, shopping is just a few finger taps away. This saves valuable times and enables people to use plastic cards which is more secure. Moreover, online banking, ticket booking system, e-payment and online subscriptions facilitate mass people to avoid traffic congestion and help maintain a green environment. From a business owner’s perspective, online shopping permits them to run the business 24x7 and without the need for any extra staff, utility bills and so on. This permits them to offer products at a more competitive price.
	Furthermore, consumers enjoy great freedom to purchase global products from renowned websites like eBay and Amazon and compare the quality and price of a product before making a purchasing decision. Perhaps the most noticeable benefit of this trend is the unparalleled opportunity it has brought for ordinary people to open their own online shops and run small businesses online. This would never have happened without the growth of online business trends.
	Among the drawbacks of online shopping, identity theft and digital scams are more common. Careless use of a credit card or sensitive personal information can often invite intruders and hackers to harm someone. Finally, online shopping does not allow someone to physically inspect a product before buying it and this often leads to customer dissatisfaction. However, these demerits can easily be avoided by being cautious and relying on reputed brands.
	To conclude, the overwhelming benefits that online shopping offer far outweigh a few demerits it has. I personally am an online shopper and I believe that this has immensely improved our freedom of shopping and lifestyle.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2815-many-young-people-drop-out-of-schools",
Essay 125:
	Many young students drop out of schools, sometimes to earn to support their families and sometimes due to other reasons, and this has a severe consequence to their future and society. Sometimes those students are to be blamed, but oftentimes, the system is responsible for it. The state should revise the way it runs schools and arranges re-schooling facilities while the school authority should provide some paid jobs to needy students to mend this situation.
	To begin with, many young pupils leaves schools without completing their education mainly to earn a wage to support their families, and this is more common in developing countries. According to a recent report, more than 30% of students leave schools in South Asian countries due to financial hindrance. The government in such a country should focus on developing the conditions of parents who have school-going offspring. Education should be free, and some subsidies should be provided to poor students. Besides, the government's initiatives to create more jobs would also improve this situation. However, the greatest step the government can take is arranging re-schooling facilities for those disarrayed pupils with some incentives and job provisions.
	Moreover, the school authority should make education more fun in school to retain young students. For instance, some Japanese schools use interactive and fun methods to teach young minds, and this has increased students’ school attendance dramatically. Such initiatives should be welcomed and more widely used. Besides, the school authority can arrange some clerical jobs for needy students to help them continue their studies.
	To conclude, education is the most important pillar for the development of a nation and the state and school authority should help students stay in schools and finish their academic years. Without having an educated nation, crime and unemployment would skyrocket to push society to complete chaos.
Essay 126:
	Education can change the fate of a nation, and educated citizens are the most important resources that a country can have. When a country has a large number of school dropouts, it struggles to develop, and it affects society negatively. The state must take necessary initiatives to improve the situation by encouraging young students to finish their education and establish enough night schools for working-class young people who want to continue their education.
	To begin with, young students often find it hard to continue their education either for their financial conditions or for their lack of interests in schools, and oftentimes, for both. To help them continue their education, the government must adopt a policy to support their families financially. Incentives should be given both to needy families and to meritorious poor students. School authority, along with the support from the government, can implement it to improve the situation. For instance, free-education and scholarship policies adopted by the authority in many Asian and African countries have reduced their illiteracy rate significantly over the years, and it has improved their employment and social conditions.
	Furthermore, education has to be interactive and fun for young students so that they enjoy going to school. A friendly school environment, sports and entertainment facilities, delicious and healthy meals, and support from teachers can be crucial factors to attach students to their school activities. Surveys reveal that when learners show interests to continue their schools, parents try their best to support the costs. Finally, the government should build many night schools so that young students who have not finished their education get a chance to continue their education. Those schools are vital to give school-leavers a second chance to improve their qualification while also keep them away from activities that are subversive for society.
	In conclusion, when young students leave schools prematurely, it not only affects their future but also the whole society. To reverse this unfortunate situation, the government and schools authorities are expected to work together. Only then we can expect the true progress of our nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2814-children-are-facing-more-pressures-nowadays",
Essay 127:
	With the ever-increasing competitions and demands in life, a child’s family, school and society, as a whole, expect too much from the child. While it is important to excel in schools, sports, social activities and in other aspects of life, those children should be shielded from the mounting pressures by maintaining a balance in their life. Otherwise, the expectation would act as a boomerang and hamper the development of a child.
	The world has become far more competitive than ever before. For instance, I did not have to compete with anyone to get admitted to my primary school but my nephew had to take an entrance exam to get enrolled in the same school, and just one in every twelve applicants was successful. Besides, we had plenty of time to enjoy in schools while this is different for today's young pupils. They attend classes, take extra coaching, go to music and art schools and read many books and all these activities are meant to fulfil their parents' dream and school's expectations. Parents want their children to be top scorers in school, math geniuses, as well as great soccer players and renowned artists. The problem is that it is not a rational and practical expectation. Moreover, the commercialisation of products which targets young children is another problem we need to address.  
	We have to draw a line in our expectations and find out the true potentials of a child rather than pushing them constantly. The state should discourage having an entrance exam in elementary school and have sufficient funds to ensure proper entertainment and sports facilities in academies. Teachers should not pressurize children to do homework every day, and they should try to make school a place to learn in a fun way. Furthermore, social perspectives to prepare every boy or girl to become a doctor, engineer or a higher-wage-earning professional should change.
	To conclude, children today are being pushed beyond their limits to achieve academic, social and professional success, and this has unfathomable negative consequences. Parents and teachers should find the hidden talent of a child, not try to make them something they are not meant to be.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2813-children-are-undisciplined-because-their-parents-are-busy",
Essay 128:
	Developing a sense of discipline among children is an important responsibility for parents as it determines a child’s future and the overall social condition. However, many parents can not share quality time with their children due to career pressure and those couples, oftentimes, fail to teach children moral values. This has undeniably lead to some juvenile delinquencies including disciplinary problems. I firmly believe that parents should spend more time with their offsprings and teach them through examples to reverse this trend.
	To begin with, when children, as a whole, in a society, become disruptive, they are not the ones to be blamed. Parents are the first teachers and perhaps the most reliable ones in times of a child’s joy and vulnerability, and they have to spend time with their children. Ideal parents teach their children good rules and set examples to meet the expectation of parenthood. Lessons learned from parents shape a child’s character and this is why psychologists emphasize so much on good parenting. Career and social status are important, but not more than the future of a child and this is why parents should maintain a balance in their professional and family life.
	Once a child becomes rogue, the parents are the persons to suffer the most. Due to the relationship between upbringing and the future of a child, fathers and mothers should instil good moral values in a child in the early stage of their life, not regret when it is already too late.
	To conclude, many parents leave their children on their own only to miss their chance to make them ideal citizens of the society. No matter how alluring the career prospects are, good parents should always make time to share with their boys and girls and teach them important lessons about life, including the importance of discipline.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2812-a-new-language-should-be-introduced-for-all-countries",
Essay 129:
	Technology, globalization, tourism and open trade policy have brought nations together and some people dream to have a world with no cultural and communication barriers. The expert opinion of having a new single international language for all nations thus has developed. Despite its appeal, I believe that it would be a futile step as the world already has an international language- English.
	The increasing conglomeration of nations, the upsurge of globalisation and the widespread use of modern technology have tremendously increased people’s need to communicate with each other and thus some linguistics express their view on introducing a new global language. However, the real picture is quite different from the expectation as linguistics have already failed to establish an artificially formed universal language despite their efforts and arguments several times.
	Moreover, English, the most widely used language for international communication, is already in place and has many rich features. Besides, some people use other international languages like Spanish and French, and except some culturally biased people, all have accepted English as their mean to communicate with people from other countries. This model is already working pretty well and the idea of patching an already functional system would add more distresses.
	Over the last millennia, English as an international language has already infiltrated the territories due to geopolitical reasons and cultural encouragements. A language is not merely a collection of letters and words; rather it is a result of the evolution of society, constant research and experience of mass people. Thus no matter how easy the newly introduced language is made, it will lack the fundamental quality of a rich language. People in favour of presenting a new global language often opine that the new language would be culturally neutral and morally correct to be the common linguistic ground for still divided humanity. As fair as it may sound, such an opinion lacks rationality. English is already doing fine and inventing a new language and having it functional would bring unnecessary distress and effort, and it will more likely fail as it did in the past.
	To conclude, the world needs a unified language for many reasons but introducing a new one is the least ideal solution of all. The natural flow of English as a global language has already filled the gap and we no longer need to add unnecessary misery to people to experiment with a seemingly ineffective idea.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2811-more-people-get-married-to-someone-of-a-different-culture",
Essay 130:
	Traditionally people get married to someone of the same culture, religion and country. But marrying in a different culture has become common and socially accepted these days. Technological advancements, changes in social belief, and freedom for choosing a life partner among young have accelerated this trend and many of these cross-cultural marriages indeed are working too well.
	To begin with, people, these days, use technology to make friends across the border. An increasing number of people also study abroad and live in a cross-cultural environment. This has broken their outdated social belief to a great extent, and they have a broader perspective of life and marriage. Moreover, young people have greater freedoms in choosing their life partners unlike in the past when parents primarily picked a bride or bridegroom for someone. Modern society also seems to have accepted this freedom and welcome marriage beyond the known boundary.
	Cross-cultural marriage has several benefits. People have different inherent features and strength based on their culture, race, geographic location and family and it is often noticed that children of such cross-cultural couples are stronger and have diverse capabilities. Two people from totally different cultures, when get married, take time to understand each other and this often strengthens their conjugal relationship. They learn about other’s tradition, culture, belief, language and this opens up an entirely new world for them. Such marriage often teaches people to become more tolerant of other races, culture and custom and it often helps people to discover themselves from a neutral point of view rather than the biased view of inherent culture and tradition.
	This type of marriage has some disadvantages too. Family, friends and relatives often have misconceptions of such couples and keep their distance. Mixed marriages often force people to accept an alien way of life that they cannot completely cope with. Children in such families often find it hard to adhere to a particular culture and end up adopting a pseudo-cultural identity. Finally, such marriage often ends in a bitter experience as couples fail to understand each other properly.
	To conclude, mix-cultural marriages are nowadays more accepted in our society than in the past. Social changes, technology and people’s freedom to choose a life partner have greatly made it possible. Despite some problems, this type of marriage is working too well to consider it a mainstream trend.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2681-countries-are-becoming-more-and-more-similar",
Essay 131:
	Differences between nations in terms of their lifestyle, food habit, fashion, choices and traditions have already reduced to a great extent with the effects of globalisation, technology and international agreements for open trade facilities. Since most of the international products are easily accessible globally, people have far more choices and freedom which have enhanced people's lifestyle besides narrowing the gaps among nations. I postulate this trend as a positive development and the reasons are explained in this essay.
	To begin with, the availability of international brands like Apple, Google, Nike, Pepsi, Johnson's, Samsung, Nestle, Unilever, Amazon, Toyota etc. in a country enables consumers to purchase quality products. For instance, someone in India can use the same technological products from Intel and Microsoft that an American uses and it facilitates reducing gaps between these two countries. 'Barrier & gaps' among nations was a predominant reason for conflicts and with the advancement of technology and mutual trade agreements, nations now know about the foreign cultures more than they did ever before. This diminishes the world tension and helps prevail the peace. Furthermore, affluent countries have created a vast market for consumer products and this has helped them establish offshore offices and factories in developing nations. This is a mutually beneficial agreement that helps both parties.
	Furthermore, local consumers are not trapped with the low-quality local products and wider freedom lets them enjoy a better lifestyle. With the competition, local manufacturers are forced to produce quality products at a competitive price. With this development, some local companies have gained international recognition as a manufacturer.
	To conclude, barriers and gaps among nations divide people and create a master-slave relationship as we have already witnessed in history. The present era has plummeted this heinous trend to a great extent and the similar lifestyle and availability of international products have helped this to happen.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2653-allowing-children-to-make-their-own-choices",
Essay 132:
	How much freedom should be granted to children on everyday matters is controversial. People who are against allowing boundless liberty to children believe that it would create selfish individuals in our society. Others, however, think freedom is necessary to nurture the creativity of children and it creates self-reliant individuals. I believe that parents should neither give absolute privilege to their children nor restrain them in every matter - there must be a balance.
	On the one hand, permitting children to do whatever they want and letting them chose everything they like would convince youngsters that they can do whatever they like. This is detrimental to the mental growth of children and those children would likely become selfish and self-centred when they grow up. Scientific research reveals that someone’s childhood experience has a permanent effect on his personality and thinking pattern. This is why parents should make important decisions for their offsprings and deter them from doing things that are harmful to their psychological and physical growth as well as for others.
	On the other hand, psychologists express that if parents do not allow their children to pick certain things on their own and restrict them on everything, the children would become fragile-minded and definitely lack confidence. If children cannot choose things they like and do not have any freedom of choice, would end up being less creative than those who were given the freedom to make their own decisions.
	To conclude, our society needs more creative and selfless people and that is why we should allow freedom to our child, but there should be a boundary between this liberty and freedom of choice. The balance can bring the best possible results.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2651-it-is-necessary-to-spend-money-on-constructing-new-railway",
Essay 133:
	People, in some countries, prefer to have a fast and extensive rail transportation system while others think that improving the existing road transportation system is far more important and that is why more budget should be spent on roads. This essay discusses both views. Personally, I am in favour of developing and enhancing both.
	On the one hand, people in favour of having a speedy and reliable train communication system mainly base their ground on the fact that trains can carry a large number of passengers and goods at a time and can remarkably reduce traffic congestion. Rail communication is safer, faster and can connect cities and towns that build a better connection than the conventional road transport system, according to these people. Furthermore, locomotives are already famous in many countries and have greatly improved communications there. Due to such advantages, people often opine that more money should be allocated for constructing new fast train lines. For instance, the train system in China and Russia both have a groundbreaking contribution to improving their overall communication systems and many countries have started adopting this model.
	On the other hand, the public transport system plays an essential role in interconnecting the different parts of the cities and most people use this system to travel to different places. Though trains can improve the city transport facilities, it is not an alternative to the existing road transports. That is why many people believe that the national budget should be utilised on improving public transport for the sake of better communication for mass people. For instance, the train line in the UK has always contributed to a great extent to the overall transport system in the country. Nevertheless, public transport has always been the main commuting mode for UK citizens.
	To conclude, I believe that the national budget should be fairly distributed for the improvement of the fast and new rail system as well as public transports for the overall expansion and improvement of the transportation system in a country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2649-families-who-send-children-to-private-schools-should-not-pay-taxes",
Essay 134:
	The education system, in most of the countries, is mainly supported by the government while private schools are expensive as private organisations maintain them. Some people opine that parents who send their children to private schools should be exempted from paying tax for state education. I, however, disagree with this proposed policy.
	First of all, the government does not force people to send their children to private schools. When people decide to send their children to private schools, they accept the higher fee willingly. From a practical point of view, affluent citizens send their children to private schools, and they are higher taxpayers. If they do not support state education, the government would have a hard time managing the state-supported education system. Besides, a double standard in tax would create an outcry among the populace. Secondly, all citizens should spontaneously pay the education tax to fulfil their duty to the country. The money collected through tax is used to run the education system of the country, and that is why taxpayers have a natural obligation to contribute to the state-run education system.
	Finally, not all citizens utilise the services provided to the public by the taxpayers' money. For instance, many city-dwellers always turn to private health care services despite they pay taxes for the state-owned medical facilities. This is why dual tax policy for individuals who send their offspring to a private school would deteriorate the whole tax collecting system.
	In conclusion, I strongly support that every eligible citizen, no matter whether they send their children to public or private schools, should pay the tax. This is the best way to keep education free for poor parents and affordable for middle-class people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2648-some-of-the-difficulties-of-living-in-a-city",
Essay 135:
	Cities offer many conveniences and opportunities that are not present in rural areas, but these things do not come without a cost. Higher living costs, pollutions, loosely relationship among people and frantic competition often make cities difficult to live in. The government has a lot to do to improve the lifestyle of the city dwellers.
	The overwhelming expense is the main problem for anyone who moves to a city from a small town. The cost of education, treatment, house rent, food and daily commodities are far higher in a city. Pollution in cities is the second most severe issue and it makes metropolitan areas less suitable for children to grow up. People in big cities live in a contaminated area where the CO2 emission, the presence of carbon and other toxic elements in the air is higher. Another drawback of living in a city is the social classification and gap between rich and poor. Social discriminations in city areas are far higher than in the other parts of the country.
	Moreover, people in small towns and villages have an exceptional connection and they know each other very well, which is quite the opposite in a city. Moreover, municipal life is full of competition and it makes people’s life miserable. Someone has to compete to get in a public car, wait for his turn to meet the doctor, wait several hours in the traffic jam and fight hard to get a decent job. The competition is so high that even a child has to go through a tough fight to be accepted into a school.   
	In conclusion, the government should take initiatives to improve people's living standard in cities and make sure rural areas and towns have plenty of job opportunities to reduce the pressure on big cities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2645-only-way-to-increase-recycling-is-to-make-it-legal-requirement",
Essay 136:
	Waste recycling is a widely discussed issue around the globe, but even after numerous global initiatives and continuous announcements, people seem to react whimsically to this. Many opine that people tend to abide by something only when there are rules and legal obligations. This is why waste recycling should be made a law and mandatory to adhere to, in my opinion.
	To begin with, waste recycling help save the environment and the process reuses many valuable materials. Some household garbage contains detrimental ingredients and can cause harm to the environment. If every homeowner takes the responsibility to participate in waste recycling, waste management as well as preserving a green environment would become easier. However, this is not the case and many people still ignore this. Thus comes the question of whether making it a law would force people to participate more and save the environment. I strongly believe this will.
	Naturally, people have a tendency to ignore many important tasks - be it for themselves or society as a whole. They are sometimes as careless as crossing the busy streets instead of taking the overpass or underpass, though the latter one is safer. On the contrary, when legal obligations and punishment for an act are in place, the number of participants seems like increases dramatically. For instance, when crossing busy streets instead of using the underpass in some cities have been made a legal offence, the number of road accidents decreased significantly over time. Similarly, when the government would make recycling mandatory by imposing laws, people would participate more in this. This is so sensitive an issue that this should have already been a part of the law.
	In fact, the main objective of the law is to deter people from doing something bad and punish offenders to maintain a peaceful society. Since waste recycling is directly related to our environment and the well-being of our future generation, we should make it a legal responsibility so that people do not ignore this important task.
	In conclusion, law and rules exist to encourage and somewhat force people to follow the good trends and avoid bad practices. Since people are not spontaneously participating in waste recycling and the amount of garbage they produce is increasing, the government must have defined rules and legislation to control it for the benefit of all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2644-some-countries-include-a-relatively-large-number-of-young-adults",
Essay 137:
	The proportion of elderly people in some countries, like Japan, is considerably higher while in some other regions, including some Asian and Western countries, young people comprise the highest percentage of the total population. Having a larger proportion of youth is considered to have more advantages for a country, and I think that a country should have more active youths for faster development.
	To begin with, the young generation is dynamic, energetic, and can contribute to the job sector which has a huge positive impact on the economic development of the country. They come with fresh ideas and are free from old superstitions and traditional beliefs. It gives them a competitive advantage. The educated young generation is the best resource a country can have, and their contribution to the country is significantly higher than the participation of children and elder people. The contribution of the older people, however, could not be denied and they have already done their part for reforming the country. They have vast experience and wisdom that are vital for decision making. They are often considered a better fit for the decision-making positions.
	Moreover, children are the future of a country, and the elderly have already played their roles. On the contrary, the young generation is the active workforce and can lead to the overall growth of the country. They are active citizens in society while children and senior peoples are dependent on others. The young generation can learn things faster and can share ideas, and this is why they are better leaders. The ICT sector, for instance, is full of fresh minds and is globally led by young minds. The ICT sector is considered to be the most prominent sector for the development of a country, especially in this technological era, and it highlights the importance of young and fresh minds over elder people in a country.
	To conclude, older people should not be considered a burden for the country, however, the young have more to contribute to society and the country as a whole. This is why it is more beneficial for a country to have an active workforce than dependent senior citizens.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2620-over-fishing-has-become-a-very-common-practice-in-many-countries",
Essay 138:
	Fish population in seas, lakes and rivers are falling sharply and over-fishing is the main reason for this. Many Asian and European countries had plenty of fish species, but these days many fish species have become numbered. Overall, this has terrible impacts. Without imposing strict laws to stop uncontrolled fishing, while also investing money in improving the natural habitats of fishes, we will bear great losses.
	Fishes, in many parts of the world, are caught early and they do not get time to grow and reproduce. Without the government’s initiatives and proper policy, the condition will deteriorate as the greedy fishers would not spare any fish from their nets. As a consequence, marine life would lose its balance and many fish species would get extinct. To prevent it, the government must have strong surveillance to stop catching baby fishes.
	As a direct result of over-fishing, many popular fish species have become very expensive and rare. For instance, Hilsha, the national fish of Bangladesh, is facing an acute threat of over-fishing and have become numbered. This has a negative economic impact as the country used to export this fish to many western countries. Besides, due to the exhaustive and indiscriminating fishing, many rivers, lakes and canals are void of fishes and more fishermen are finding it hard to live by fishing. Many governments have already taken steps by declaring many rivers, sea areas and canals restricted and marking commercial fishing prohibited in certain seasons, and this is making the livelihood of many fishermen even harder.
	In conclusion, over-fishing must be stopped now and the government must decide to bring changes to save fish species. Besides, the population who live by fishing must also fish prudently and always spare the baby and mother fishes for their own benefit.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2619-the-cultures-of-some-countries-are-influenced-by-others",
Essay 139:
	Globalisation is sweeping away all the differences and boundaries among nations. The buzzword globalisation refers to the freeing up of markets, free flow of goods and information and as a result, the traditional barriers among nations are gradually breaking down and the world is becoming closer in terms of cultural and economic relations. So, I believe that, as a natural process, the culture of different countries are blending together and a country is adopting foreign cultures faster than ever.
	These days some countries are experiencing rapid cultural changes and the culture of a dominating country is being adopted by the people of other countries. For instance, due to the spread of Indian TV channels and their Bombay-centric flamboyant Hindi cultures, many SAARC countries are on the verge of losing their century-old cultural uniqueness in the films and fashion industries. Interestingly, Indian culture is also being influenced by more dominating Hollywood.
	Moreover, in the age of globalisation, countries are seeking greater cooperation and the spirit is a greater flow of commodities, information and people across the borders of different countries. Mass media and technology have played an even greater role in promoting the norm of globalisation and people these days are aware of the cultural presence of other countries. The tourist influx in different countries is creating a mixed cultural global village where no country is unique, rather they all have a mixed culture.
	Some people treat this as a natural process while others take it as a threat to their own cultural identity. I believe that cultures are dynamic and living phenomena. Culture, what we know today, was different in the past and that is why we should not be too much wary of changes. Even before globalisation swept in, we started celebrating the 31st December and Valentine’s Day, which is completely foreign to our culture. This is the era of free information exchange and if we stop international cooperation for the sake of our cultural identity, our progress would stop overnight.
	In conclusion, free trade and the global market is such a powerful concept that it cannot be stopped anymore. Keeping the window of progress is better than keeping them close even if this means inheriting foreign cultures.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2618-environmental-problems-are-becoming-a-global-issue",
Essay 140:
	Some environmental problems are regional like cyclones, and some others are global - greenhouse effects, for instance. With the span of time, many environmental problems are becoming global issues, and I believe that global initiatives will bring the best result. It will also make the world a better place to live in.
	To begin with, environmental problems are generally caused by humans and while some of them are national in nature, most of them are global issues. Noise or water pollution at a time remain national problems but after a certain period, it would turn into a problem for the whole world. Thus if some environmental problems are left unaddressed due to its span in a country, it would soon become a problem for all nations.
	Moreover, not all nations are equally qualified to address issues of such magnitude due to their economic and political aspects and this is why other affluent nations should extend their helping hands to solve such problems. Rich nations cause more global warming and this is why they need to build a common platform to bring all nations together to fight environmental problems. For a poor country, it is quite tough to allocate a budget for saving the greenery while millions of its population are suffering from hunger and natural disaster. This is why other rich nations have natural obligations to help those poor or developing nations.
	To draw the conclusion, global environmental problems like greenhouse effects, global warming etc. have already become a concern for every nation. A collaborative effort to address these problems would be a better strategy as each nation is not equally adept to solve global problems.
Essay 141:
	Environmental problems greatly vary in terms of their magnitudes, and some of these are local, while others are definitely global in nature - the greenhouse effect or global warming for example. For the best result, these sort of problems should be addressed at the most appropriate levels, sometimes even at multiple levels.
	To begin with, some environmental problems are generally caused by a group of people in a particular region and these issues get accelerated by the rapid expansion of industrialisation in this region. These sorts of problems often include noise pollution, air pollution, deforestation, intoxicating waste disposal etc. and these are generally national in nature. It is better to address these types of environmental problems at the national level and educating people is a viable solution in this scenario. International aid sometimes can help a poor or developing country to address environmental problems but the government of the country should take initiatives to solve such national problems.
	Having said that, some environmental problems, for instance, common river, coastline or sea pollution concerns more than one countries and those sorts of problems should be addressed at a bilateral level. Similarly, if an environmental problem concerns a large region, for instance, a continent, that should be discussed and fought by the countries that are located on this continent. Some common examples of this type of environmental problems are desertification, soil erosion, aridness and floods.  
	Finally, some environmental problems pervade across national boundaries and calls for multinational or global collaboration. For example, radioactive industrial wastages in oceans, ozone layer degradation, global warming are global issues and these types of problems should be addressed by every single nation in the world. For greater success and effectiveness, I believe that the commitment of countries, especially rich nations, is quite important.
	To conclude, environmental problems should be viewed as a common problem for mankind and those global problems should be endorsed and shared globally by all nations. Similarly, rich nationals should help developing nations to fight their regional and national environmental problems for the best result.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2617-art-sport-and-music-are-being-dropped-from-school-curriculum",
Essay 142:
	In recent years, many schools have included technology-related subjects while dropped traditional subjects from the school syllabus. Whether old subjects should be replaced by modern ones is a matter of great debate. I believe it is a difficult question to answer, and different schools should adopt different solutions.
	Some believe that traditional subjects should be retained as part of the school curriculum as they have great values for the students. According to them, school education is not merely a process to ensure a future job. This is rather a broader aspect, and to build an enlightened future generation, we need more cultural and arts-related subjects than technical ones. Another group of people believe that technical subjects are more important than arts and sports-related subjects as they not only ensure better learning for students but guarantee jobs in the future also. From a more practical point of view, technical knowledge is more important in life, and this is why many people and guardians support the change in the school curriculum.
	In conclusion, the school curriculum is a sensitive issue, and that should be very carefully planned. Modern subjects should be introduced, no doubt, but this should not make the traditional and old subjects obsolete.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2616-todays-food-travels-thousands-of-miles-before-it-reaches-customers",
Essay 143:
	These days we no longer completely rely on locally grown food as we can now purchase food grown in some distant land whenever we want. Though this trend has some benefits as it widens our freedom as consumers, it has some severe disadvantages which makes it a dangerous trend.
	We live in a global village, and with the introduction of the speedy transportation system, food grown anywhere could be transported to other parts of the world. It ensures that people can buy many types of local and foreign fruits, vegetables and other food items from the nearby markets. "If something is not locally grown, import it" - globalisation has made it a reality. It also fosters international trade, helps many farmers reach the international market and help countries fight their food scarcity. However, this does not come without a price.
	The transportation of food requires burning more fuel, and this is detrimental to the environment. Just to supply internationally grown fruits, we are degrading our environment. This is a price we cannot afford to pay. Another negative impact of transporting food is putting the local farmers into the competition, and they are forced to produce more items at a lower cost and hence the increasing use of chemicals. This, in a way, is declining the quality of locally grown food items.
	Furthermore, consumers are often forced to purchase imported food that was preserved and produced with the use of chemicals and preservatives. They are harmful to our health, and people are purchasing those items at a higher price. Importers cannot ensure the freshness and proper nutrition of imported food. Local sellers also preserve them for several days. This makes it less nutritious and less fresh than the locally produced fruits and vegetables.
	In conclusion, I believe that transporting food over a long distance is undesirable and have more negative consequences than positive ones. It threatens our local farmers and chemically preserved fruits and vegetables that are being imported is not a healthy choice at all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2615-youth-drug-abuse-is-a-serious-problem",
Essay 144:
	Youth drug abuse is perhaps the most wicked and concerning issue both the poor and rich nations suffer equally. Many young talents are wasted and families destroyed due to drug abuse. Not only the illegal drugs are being misused, but also the youth's experiment with illegal substances are on the rise. Suggesting accurate remedies for that problem requires a clear understanding of the underlying reasons and this essay will attempt it.
	To note down the possible reasons for youth drug abuse, we need to consider the availability of these drugs and many corrupted law officers first. According to several news reports and investigations, the law-enforcing department has a list of all drug dealers and possible spots where illegal drugs are sold. If this is the case, why they are yet to wipe out the illegal drug business from the city is a big question! No doubt, money and corruption play a role here. Besides, some people say that family bonding in modern life is not as close as it used to be. Due to family issues and pressure, many young people start abusing drugs. Initially, they find it a relief but soon get trapped. Thirdly, the lack of proper counselling and teenagers curiosity drive many of them to try new drugs. Bad companies who are on drugs can influence many youths to start it. Finally, public advertisements, magazines and movies that depict smoking and drinking positively can attract young minds. They often try to mimic their favourite actors and this is just the beginning that ends in substance-abusing.
	Personally, I would like to suggest that the authority should try to wipe out the illegal drug businesses from the country. If the illegal drug business is closed, teenagers would not be curious to try them. Another way to tackle this issue is by having better family bonding and parents spending quality time with their children. Finally, all sorts of public advertisement for tobacco or alcohol should be completely banned.
	To conclude, hopefully, the day not far away when we will have no young drug abuser in our society and this can be achieved by us - as a parent, as a teacher, as a friend and finally as a law-enforcing officer. If we play our roles properly, we will have a better society, which is free of any illegal drugs and drug addicts.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2614-living-in-an-apartment-instead-of-university-dormitory",
Essay 145:
	After getting admitted to a university, students need to decide where to live, and this choice severely affects their academic performance and student life. While many disciples choose university halls, others opt to live in an apartment, and it has both benefits and demerits. This essay examines both advantages and disadvantages of living in a separate apartment than living in a university residence. Personally, I would prefer to live in a university residence.
	Living in an apartment offers many distinct advantages, and privacy is one of them. While a student in a dormitory has little privacy, someone in an apartment enjoys far better privacy and freedom. Learners who live in an independent house can choose a quiet neighbourhood, and this environment is conducive for studying attentively. Furthermore, living in an apartment makes students more independent, and they can choose a better diet. For instance, one of my cousins moved to an apartment after living in a university dormitory for about six months, and he did so because he hated the food offered in his university canteen.
	Having said that, living in an apartment rather than a university dormitory has some visible disadvantages. First and foremost is the cost. In my country, living in an apartment is quite expensive while the university offers cheap accommodation. The food is also cheaper in the university dining halls. Second, renting an apartment in my city is hard for a student. The landlords prefer families over the students. Furthermore, the daily commuting is convenient from the university halls while not so easy from the apartments away from the university campus. Finally, campus staying students have better interaction with seniors and teachers.
	In conclusion, even though there are many benefits of living in an apartment than living in a university hall, I would still prefer to live in the university dormitory. The primary reason for me to be able to attend my classes without commuting through bad traffics. I hate to wait in the heavy traffic and as I do not own a car. I would also like to enjoy my university life and stay in touch with my seniors, teachers and classmates whenever possible. University life has so many things to offer, and I do not want to miss them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2613-overpopulation-in-most-developing-countries-is-a-problem",
Essay 146:
	The world already has an unendurable population and the highest percentages of them live in Asia and Africa. Poverty, corruption, pollution and diseases are epidemic in these parts of the world and the higher populace is the main reason for it. If the population in these two continents are not controlled, the problems would completely get out of hand and this essay suggests some ways of curbing the expansion of the population.
	The terribly higher population density, poverty, unemployment and other social problems have already made it tough for Asian and African countries to progress and the increasing population growth makes the future even more uncertain there. Higher population in some developed countries are seen as a blessing while it is not the case in most of the Asian and African countries as most of their citizens are uneducated and unskilled.
	To control the population, the first step has to come from the government. The authority should restrict the number of children a family can have, and violation of this policy should be severely punished. Countries like China have already adopted this policy and have been able to control their population to a certain extent. Besides, the citizens have to realise the negative effects of the uncontrolled population and spontaneously take birth control measures. Without the support of the ordinary population, the government alone cannot control it. Above all, international organisations like WHO, UNDP and other humanitarian organisation should work in these countries to educate people about the negative consequences of the higher population growth. Besides, they should provide funds for birth control in these countries.
	In conclusion, the higher population in poor countries is a big threat, and, oftentimes, the main hindrance to true progress. The government, ordinary people and international organisations should work together to control the rapid population growth in these countries. Without a combination of policy, awareness and a free flow of funds, it would be impossible to help those countries control their population.
Essay 147:
	The population growth in the world has already gone out of control, and it is more daunting in most Asian and African countries. The population growth in these regions is uncontrollable due to ignorance, poor quality of life, and the religious and social taboo against population control. In this essay, I will briefly suggest some issues that overpopulation causes, and then suggest some ways to control it.
	Overpopulation causes a complex set of problems that negatively affects the quality of life. It also increases crime, pollution and corruption. Increasing population creates more pressure on the already limited resources in the poor and developing countries and an upsurge in population will simply make the situation worse. Unemployment, inadequate infrastructure, poverty, malnutrition, low literacy rates and high competition already make the citizens suffer a lot, and if the population growth is not controlled, it will make things worse day by day.
	Controlling the population in a country can not be achieved overnight, and despite initiatives and educational campaigns, the result might come at a slow pace. However, proper steps should be taken to control the rapid expansion of the population. First, the authority should take initiatives and launch awareness campaigns more frequently, especially among the poor citizens, to educate them about the negative consequences of having many children. Making contraceptives available for free among the poor population should be ensured. Finally, the government must impose laws to restrict the number of children a family can have. For instance, families in China are not allowed to have more than one child, and any violation of it incites financial penalty. This may seem cruel at first but the one-child policy has already given positive outcomes to many populous countries.
	In conclusion, if the population keeps increasing at the current rate, the world would soon find itself in the verse of war for food, shelter and medicine. So the time has come to take every possible step to tackle the heinous speed of population growth, and authorities and citizens should work together to tackle it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2612-developing-countries-should-concentrate-more-on-industrial-development",
Essay 148:
	Developing countries have great potentials to accelerate their progress, and they want to achieve it faster, even if it means that they need to shift their economic focus. Though it is not accepted by all that a country can develop if it focuses on expanding industries rather than agriculture, I personally believe that a developing country like Bangladesh should have a well-conceived industrialisation strategy like Japan, China or Hong Kong to become a developed country.
	Agriculture, undeniably, is an important sector for a country like Bangladesh where more than 70% of people rely on it. However,  agriculture alone cannot enlist a country as an advanced nation in this modern era. The industrial revolution has taught us that manual labour and agricultural products cannot singly improve the economic condition of a nation. And a country must have an export-oriented industry or great industrial hub to progress quickly. For instance, a poor country has to export several hundreds of tonnes of grains to import only a few numbers of modern machinery. This disparity will keep on enhancing if the nation cannot become industrially sufficient. Asian economy has already shifted from farming and fishing to industrialisation and no developing country can further progress without following the same pathway, as the research suggests.
	While agricultural development should not be ignored, especially in countries like Bangladesh, industrialisation should get more priority. Diversifying the agricultural products and exports is a great power for an agricultural-based country, but this takes a long way to reach the top and with the revolution and rapid expansion of the industrial world, this has become quite challenging, in a practical world.
	To conclude, an agriculture-dependent country like Bangladesh should try to diversify its agricultural sector to become self-sufficient in its food supply but must have a long-term industrial strategy to progress and become a developed nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2611-traditional-examination-are-not-often-true-to-students-ability",
Essay 149:
	For more than a century, traditional examination to assess student’s ability was in place and this is still in use in many parts of the world. However, a more suitable and modern approach has been adopted by many schools, and this is often regarded as a better technique to evaluate a pupil’s learning ability and knowledge. I personally believe that the innovative modern assessment technique is more suitable.
	To begin with, the conventional exam system has a major flaw which is its inadequacy to evaluate the true knowledge of pupils. For instance, in the conventional paper-based exam system, students can memorise answers to a few questions and pass the exam with a good grade. Someone with little knowledge of a subject can get a higher grade by memorising answers. On the contrary, innovative approaches like group assignments, sudden quiz, hands-on tests etc. can reflect the actual level of student’s learning. This is why many educational institutions are shifting towards these assessment techniques from the traditional exam system and I really believe that this will, in the future, become the main evaluation technique in schools.
	Moreover, the paper-based exam system allows students to cheat the exam and pass it without even studying hard. On the contrary, a student would not be able to pass a hands-on test or an open-book exam where he needs to propose a solution to a problem rather than writing answers from books. From my experience, I can tell that I had to study more to pass the sudden class tests than my term-finals as I had no clue what teachers would assess on these sudden tests. Many schools have already introduced a few innovative assessment techniques due to their experience from the traditional tests and their limitations. The latest methods are in place because they are more suitable.
	To conclude, the right technique to evaluate students is an important issue, and no stone should be unturned to introduce the most effective way of doing it. Something is missing in the conventional exam system, and I believe this is where the modern methods of evaluating fits in.
Essay 150:
	To begin with, formal examinations, in many cases, do not reflect a pupil’s true ability and knowledge. Examination or any assessment criteria is meant to scrutinize a student objectively, but a formal test fails to do it, especially because it involved memorise-and-pass technique. Further, formal exams do not consider someone’s health condition on the exam date and thus is unsuitable for many. Some students take more time to produce any result and though they take a longer time, they have a better result in producing capability. Traditional exams would also score these sorts of students poorly.
	On the other hand, the unconventional assessment systems to test a student’s skill and knowledge can be quite effective and bring out a better result. For instance, oral presentation, assignments, sudden quizzes, class tests, course work, and other modern methods of evaluation can examine students from various perspectives and when the result is combined, the indication is far more accurate. These tests scrutinise a learner’s creativity, depth of knowledge, creativity, ability to use the knowledge in the practical world, and are important parameters of a student’s reasoning and reflection of learning ability.
	In conclusion, evaluating a learner accurately is important and the best method for this should be in place. No doubt the formal examination system had been used for a long but the time has come to adopt a more accurate and practical assessment system and hence the shift towards a combination of innovative assessment systems is inevitable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2610-city-planners-new-designs-include-commercial-places-in-different-areas",
Essay 151:
	To begin with, though traditional cities are initially planned to have commercial buildings located in the centre of the city, to be away from the main residential area, in a few years, the structure of the city changes and it becomes a more unplanned city than ever. It is natural that parents would prefer to send their children to a nearby school while shoppers would love to shop from around the corner. As a consequence, residential areas at a time become semi-commercial areas and traffic congestion kills people’s valuable time. In such cities, pollution increases and a few percentages of landlords get higher commercial rents while others do not.
	On the contrary, if cities have saturated commercial settings, it will assure balanced residential and commercial establishments and city dwellers would be greatly benefitted from it. The house rent would be fair and the traffic condition on the roads would be far better. Furthermore, the authority would have control over the future expansion of the area and face fewer difficulties to ensure the necessary facilities for the local people.
	To conclude, the modern city planning that supports the location of commercial entities and public services to be built in various areas of the city rather than having those altogether offers numerous advantages to the local authorities including better traffic condition, more reliable public facilities, fair rent and future expansion of the city.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2609-advances-in-technology-have-improved-our-lifestyle",
Essay 152:
	We started living in a cave, as history suggests, and thanks to the novelty and advancement of modern technology that we now live in a grand apartment with many facilities which were unimaginable even a century ago. From an uncertain life where our ancestors had to deal with constant fears of darkness and lurking predators, we have a remarkably comfortable and advanced lifestyle and this has all been possible due to technological advancements.
	It is often argued by many that modern technology has given us comfort but has cost us dearly. As an example, they point out that we have become less active and more dependent on machines, especially on household appliances. According to them, this is a backward step and apparatuses cannot improve our lifestyle. What they fail to realise is that the blessing of science has eradicated many deadly diseases that had often wiped out cities and made us vulnerable like ants in the water. Advancement in technology is not a one-dimensional straight line, it is a spark of light, and without it, we would still be at the mercy of natural calamities. People may blame science for the contamination of food or the advent of fast food, but it is worth mentioning that without science, we would have a world war for the food crisis.
	The household appliances like washing machines and vacuum cleaners have reduced the manual labour of cleaning while rice cookers, microwave ovens, coffee makers and electric kettles have improved the way we cook at home. We no longer need to end our day when the sun sets as electric bulbs illuminate the world. Thus, it is easy to criticise the innovation and wonder science has brought to our life but living without them is utterly impossible. For instance, imagine what the world would be without electricity, refrigerators, TVs and the internet - unimaginable even for a day.
	To conclude, it is undeniable that modern household appliances have made our tasks easier, faster and more accurate. With this, we have a better lifestyle and more time to spend with our family members or to enjoy our leisure activities.
Essay 153:
	Innovations of science have touched the lives of billions as most homes, these days, have at least a washing machine, refrigerator, microwave oven, and air conditioner, and these tools have profoundly enhanced the way people live their life. Yet, the negative effects of this dependency cannot be denied.
	To begin with, these household appliances save a great deal of time and human labour and this is simply amazing. People no longer need to work all day long to finish their works, and as a result, people can have more quality times. This is definitely a great leap towards modernisation and a significant enhancement of their lifestyle. For instance, most women in the past century had to remain busy at home but these days they can spend more leisure time and this has all been possible due to the advents of modern household appliances.
	However, modern technology cannot ensure a better lifestyle by all means and in many cases, it deteriorates our lifestyle. For instance, TV is considered to be a wonder box in most houses. Due to our addiction to TV, we have little time to talk with other family members. This is not the desired state at all but an example of how machines can negatively affect our lifestyle. Moreover, the modern technology used for preparing food and drinks are not always safe and cannot be compared with the hygiene and food value we used to get from food when they were collected from natural sources and made manually. For instance, the burger, sandwich or ice cream made at home are not as nutritious as our grandmother’s cookies or cakes were.
	We can, therefore, conclude that technology is a blessing for us and at the same time if we do not use it sensibly, it might bring a curse for us as well. This is why, we will have to determine the limit of its usages, even at home, to make our lifestyle standard as well as safe.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2606-the-growing-number-of-refugees",
Essay 154:
	The recent political unrest, war and the rise of a few terrorist groups have made many people become refugees and this is a global problem. As an immediate solution, many express their view that rich countries should allow more evacuees to enter their border to reduce the severity of this crisis. However, accepting a higher number of migrants by the developed countries is not a viable solution to this refugee crisis, in my opinion.
	To begin with, worldwide refugees and their constant sufferings are often reported on TV. It might seem that industrialised countries can easily solve this emergency and miseries by allowing more refugees to enter their countries. In reality, this is certainly not an easy solution. If we only look at the few recent catastrophic events that the migrant refugees have caused, it would become clear why the governments in developed countries are unwavering to accept more people to their countries. Besides, historically, it is evident that only granting more refugees in other countries does not solve the problem, in some cases, it deteriorates it.
	It is true that, due to humanitarian reasons, some developed countries should help destitute and needy people. This is partly a moral issue and partly because it is in the self-economic interest of the industrialised countries. Considering this, a practical way of reducing the severity of this crisis would be to accept more refugees, particularly when it is caused by a natural disaster and civil war.
	But, from a more practical point of view, mass immigrations would bring more negative effects. Solving the root cause of the outbreaks of refugees is a far better way than allowing them freely migrate to developed countries. On a practical level, homeless refugees are sometimes better off receiving aid in their homeland than suffering racism and begging on the streets in a country where they cannot speak the language.
	To conclude, rich countries should take refugees but only in extreme cases and should focus on solving the primary reason behind the refugee issue. Sometimes funds and aids for refugees in their local area are far more beneficial than accepting them as migrants and finally forcing them to beg on the street.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2565-why-do-you-think-young-people-move-to-cities",
Essay 155:
	Cities offer excellent education facilities, job opportunities and a better standard of living. This is why the influx of people in cities is ever-increasing and young people mostly move to cities, away from their families, to pursue a better education and to have a job. Though there are many advantages to this trend, negative sides are also there.
	To commence with, the young generation has to move to cities to get admitted into better colleges or universities. Evidently, cities have more specialised universities while rural areas scarcely have such facilities. This is why parents want their children to study in a college in a city rather than in a village. Moreover, jobs, business opportunities, living standard, health care and technological advancements often bound educated young to move to urban areas. For instance, an IT professional has almost no chances of having a job in a remote area while there are plenty of opportunities for this person in a city.  
	In conclusion, some professionals, like doctors should be encouraged to work in rural areas while professionals like software developers should stay in the city. However, the government should take initiatives to build new offices and factories in rural areas so that young people can work and stay there.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2550-some-young-people-look-forward-to-a-year-of-travelling",
Essay 156:
	Some youngsters consider a gap year the key to enhancing their career prospects, while others think it is a worthless pursuit. I believe that pursuing a gap year can provide worthwhile experiences to juveniles, laying the seeds of a prosperous professional career.
	On the one hand, by taking a gap year, youngsters can gain relevant work experiences and key skills which help broaden their view of the world. Working during the defer years can increase their knowledge and communication skills. Furthermore, experiencing the customs and cultures of other countries help gain appreciation and awareness of global issues, which put them in leadership positions. Such knowledge is paramount to secure a dream job in the future.
	However, if the gap year is used imprudently, it can cost an awful amount of money and time. To add to the ordeal, one can get into debt. One in ten people faces financial ordeals from budget mismanagement according to gap-year tour operators. In my view, that number is negligible.
	Finally, in my opinion, hefty expenses should be the least cause for deterring a gap year. The return on investment is high, bringing positive drastic changes to the personality of the youngster. Travelling to other countries solidifies young adults with soft, and hard skills; moulding character and individuality. Facing and circumventing adversity in an unfamiliar country sets a solid foundation for solving problems in life. Such an experience is worth the expense.
	In conclusion, there is definitely an edge some young person can attain contrasting to those who consider gap-years an expensive waste of time. However, improper planning can adversely affect personal finances, but accurate gap-year budget and plans eliminate the risk of debt and waste of time.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2549-to-what-extent-has-the-internet-made-life-more-convenient",
Essay 157:
	The internet has profound contributions to our lifestyle and daily needs. Also, information is instantaneously available, at the behest of the people due to this technology. From a historical perspective, the comfort level enjoyed by people is at its pinnacle. Such is the impact of the internet on our life. This essay will discuss how the internet is playing an indispensable role in shaping education as one of the main advantages, and, secondly, outline how cybercrimes can adversely affect lives.
	The internet significantly boosts student autonomy. Students have the freedom to focus on whatever topics or subjects they want to study and learn more on this subject. An example is the number of online courses available, covering a variety of subjects, which up until today was unavailable to most learners. This has caused an upsurge in the number of people studying tertiary-level degrees, at a pace and schedule that suits them the best. Education is no more a rigid process of learning in classrooms, rather, it is an entertaining, engaging and fun activity and thanks to the internet technology for that.
	The main disadvantage associated with the usage of the internet is the rise of electronic crimes. People risk their privacy online by having their sensitive information stolen by malicious software written by nefarious hackers. According to Time Magazine, the shopping giant Walmart suffered one of the largest online heists ever, where a security breach leaked millions of credit card information. This resulted in disrupting their shopping services; affecting customers living in remote areas.
	In conclusion, the benefits the internet bring to education, such as student autonomy, must be measured against the drawbacks, such as cybercrimes. Overall, the internet’s positive usage by people all over the world significantly outweighs its negative usage.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2546-fewer-people-want-to-become-teachers",
Essay 158:
	Recently, in many countries, there has been a steady decline in the number of people willing to become teachers, especially in secondary schools. This essay will look at the reasons for this downfall and propose some solutions.
	One of the main problems contributing to the lack of interest in pursuing a career in teaching is lower remuneration. In other words, salaries earned by teachers are lower compared to other professions. For example, a school teacher in Bangladesh earns a salary of 10,000 takas compared to other professions where the salary is at least 25,000 taka. Raising the minimum wage of teachers will significantly encourage people to take up teaching as a profession.
	Another cause that magnifies the problem is the difficult behaviours exhibited by secondary level students. That is to say, adolescents, these days behave indecently by showing brash attitudes towards teachers. Such misbehaviour and misdemeanours do little to motivate a teacher to pursue the profession in a high school. According to Psychology Today, 60 per cent of the teachers feel indignant and dejected while teaching high school students. Which causes current teachers to quit and un-appeals prospective teachers. Rectifying students behaviours will encourage more employees to pursue the teaching profession.
	The final cause is the amount is workload; both on and off school hours. To elaborate, teachers often have to sacrifice their personal time to check student copies, exam papers at home. Doing so does not allow a teacher to rest and recover from stress, which is hazardous to both the psychological and physical well-being of the teacher. This eventually causes the burnout effect, where the mind and body cease to function properly. An ideal solution to kerb such an effect is to improvise work-life balance by the respective school authorities. This will attract more people to this profession.
	In summary, lower remuneration disinterests teachers towards the profession which can be solved by increasing wages. Difficult behaviours by high school students demotivate the teacher causing them to quit or disinterest potential teachers, which can be solved by rectifying student behaviours. Overwork detriments the mental and physical well-being of teachers causing the burnout effect, which can be solved by improvising work-life balance by school authorities.
	In conclusion, we need excellent teachers to build a better nation as their contribution as teachers are unparalleled. So we need to solve problems that deter talented and motivated individuals to become teachers.
Essay 159:
	These days fewer people are drawn to becoming high school teachers in many parts of the world. Many reasons contribute to this trend and low wages for teachers and teenage disciplinary problems are most significant among them. However, some solutions can be implemented to encourage talented youth to pursue the teaching profession including better remuneration and reasonable workloads, for example.
	The interest in becoming secondary level school teachers is declining and young people are taking more interests in becoming engineers, pilots, IT professionals and doctors. Studies show that teachers are not well paid and their salaries are far less than other professionals like bankers or pilots. Moreover, in many countries, being a high school teacher is not a prestigious career and this social dogma deter talented individuals to become teachers. In addition, according to disciplinary studies, high school going pupils' behaviours is another reason many teachers do not feel like being in the right profession. Parental focus on their children has reduced and consequently, it has created a whole new generation who misbehave in schools.
	Some initiatives may encourage the future generation to go into the teaching profession. First, increasing the salaries and benefits for the teachers would be a great step. It would encourage young students to ponder about becoming a teacher. Furthermore, to reduce the teachers' workloads, schools should employ assistants to help the tutors. Lastly, school authority should get involved in maintaining a better teaching environment and implement corporal punishment for misbehaving pupils.
	To conclude, the passion to become teachers, especially at the secondary level, is declining. Nevertheless, proper solutions are there to address these problems to encourage more talented individuals to come into the teaching profession and help build the nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2538-private-education-should-be-prohibited",
Essay 160:
	The provision of education by the state is a norm in many developed nations, and its significance cannot be stressed enough. Many private setups are expanding their foothold of taking over the task these days. As many are of the view that it is the sole responsibility of the government to impart educational services, I strongly agree with them and opine that private education should be banned.
	Opponents of this belief put forth that negating the private sector from setting up schools, colleges and universities would deprive many of getting the necessary education and this is a violation of their rights. It is the parental judgement that can best serve as a guide as to which teaching system tailors for their child's needs and abilities. It is also the case that every year majority of school dropouts and sick leaves are attributed to unclean drinking water and squalid conditions in state-funded educational spots, making privately organised educational institutes safer to acquire knowledge.
	Supporters of private education do not bear in mind that not everyone can afford the sky-high fee offered by private organisations. Additionally, the huge amount of taxes we pay annually obviates the need for the government to contribute to investing in the realm of education. When a government ensures education for all, the syllabus used in schools would be the same all over the country and that would ensure a better education system for all.
	Hence it is imperative that putting a lid on the private educational counterpart fuels the survival of the individual and the society, thereby further advocating my stance of government funding the system of education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2526-face-to-face-communication-will-become-a-thing-of-the-past",
Essay 161:
	Usages of the internet and smartphones have become a global phenomenon, and we depend on these technological marvels one way or another. While some people assert that the widespread use of internet communication and mobile phones will replace the traditional form of face to face interaction, I completely disagree with this view.
	To begin with, the use of the internet and other latest communication technologies drive us to meet new people and contact the dear ones who stay far away. This can especially be true when one gets a chance to express his or her feelings via a text or phone call. To quote an example, Skype and Facebook have enabled people living in far-flung areas to communicate effectively through video chats, thereby enabling us to contact more frequently with people we care about. This has not replaced the way we care and meet others, rather it has made it more convenient and frequent.
	While the advancement of technology might scale back in personal contact to some extent for the short term, it, in fact, enables people to become more polarised towards seeing siblings, parents and mates in the long run. This can be easily visualised by taking into account that if we are to sustain the internet as a tool to deliver our emotions and beliefs to the world, we will need to picture proof gatherings, celebrations and events thereby obviating the need for face to face communication.
	Secondly, the human is a social being, and it is to the credit of this physical presence that we as a species are able to harness long-term relationships, so its value cannot be undermined. Mere endorsing words of good character by texts cannot inculcate the right kind of virtue, thereby further laying emphasis on human presence for the future is required.
	To conclude, by seeing both sides of the spectrum, it is clearly evident that the internet and text messaging will not make the face to face communication a footnote of the past.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2525-public-health-can-be-improved-if-the-government-make-laws",
Essay 162:
	Due to the increasing pollution and higher population density, healthy living and the government's role in it is a great concern for many. Some opine that the government needs to pass laws regarding food intake to improve public health, while others oppose this idea as they believe that it is a matter of individual choice. The following paragraphs will shed some light on this debate before drawing a logical conclusion.
	To begin with, a healthy lifestyle is a choice and habit of an individual. No matter how many laws are passed and how strictly the government monitors the food quality, if a person does not follow a healthy lifestyle and eating habit, he will surely suffer from health-related issues. Thus the choices of individuals greatly affect the overall health condition of a nation. To lead a healthy life, citizens not always need expensive food, gym facilities, expert dieticians and so on. For instance, the rich population of a country suffers from obesity, diabetics and many other diseases that are less prevalent among middle-class people.
	On the other hand, the use of chemicals, preservatives and adhesives in food items should be banned, and only the government can ensure that. Even after having a proper diet and regular exercise, if people are forced to eat foods that have chemicals and harmful ingredients, they would suffer from dangerous diseases. Using unauthorised chemicals, selling expired and low-quality foods should be halted by the authority. Infrequent market monitoring and the lack of quality control for food items are two reasons our market is full of unhygienic food items. The government's initiative can reduce this depravity and crime to a great extent.
	To conclude, the citizens of a country have to follow a healthy lifestyle, while the government must ensure hygiene in food production and food sales. Their combined initiatives and efforts can greatly promote public health.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2523-nowadays-people-normally-stretch-their-work-hours-and-get-stressed",
Essay 163:
	Employees, these days, usually have to extend their working hours beyond the conventional 9 to 5 schedule. This, in turn, creates negative effects on the employees, both psychologically and physically. Let me examine the reasons for this stress at the workplace, and provide some measures that employers could take in order to break the cycle for a more balanced life.
	One of the major reasons, which make working-class people fall into a stressful life, is the heavy workload. Constant deadlines and work pressure make employees' life miserable. Moreover, they need to secure their job by showing better performance and proving their worth and need incentives to support the soaring price of everything. To illustrate, many organizations set monthly targets for their employees so that workers work extra hours to achieve their goals while many employees spontaneously work extra hours to earn the bonus.
	Employers can take various measures to ease the situation and help employees become not only happy but also loyal to the company and more productive in the long run. First and foremost, they can hire more employees, as the work burden can be shared among them. They can also offer incentives to employees who work dedicatedly, not just long hours. Besides, they can make the office environment more favourable for employees. For instance, some large tech giants render many recreational activities, such as meditation and gym at the workplaces which make their employees happier people at work.
	In conclusion, happy employees and lenient employers would increase the productivity of an organisation to a greater extent. That is why it is expected that employers would look after their workers' happiness while employees would work dedicatedly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2521-nowadays-many-young-people-leave-home-at-an-early-age",
Essay 164:
	For more desirable job opportunities or better education, many young people these days leave their house and live away from their families. This trend has both pros and cons which will be elucidated in this essay. I personally feel that leaving home for better education or career is the right step to take.
	On the one hand, if young people live separately, they learn how to become self-reliant and make decisions independently. For example, when those young people live with their family, most of their tasks are done by their parents. However, when they start living far away, they learn how to manage their time, clean the house, do laundry, cook, pay the bills and so on. Also, they learn the value of money and try to spend it reasonability and save it for the future. Furthermore, they make new friends and learn about diverse customs and cultures.
	On the other hand, when those young people live alone, they need to take many responsibilities. Initially, this leads them to feel isolated, and they often feel depressed as a result. Furthermore, they are not always mature enough to avoid the pitfalls of bad company and habits. So, if they find inappropriate friends or roommates who have bad habits, they would probably get involved in unethical acts and crimes.
	Considering both the advantages and disadvantages, it seems reasonable to outline that sooner or later they will have to take up those responsibilities and it is better that they face life and its challenges at a young age.
	In conclusion, from what has been discussed, although living alone may have some drawbacks, it leads to young people bringing up more independence which is essential for their career growth and life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2520-large-businesses-have-big-budgets-for-marketing-and-promotion",
Essay 165:
	Big corporations and international brands spend a large sum of money on marketing and advertising. Consequently, people tend to buy their products while small local businesses fail to reach potential customers. This can lead to some serious problems; such as the closure of local businesses, unemployment and the monopoly in the market. There are a few steps that can be adopted to address this issue and motivate people to buy local products.
	Naturally, consumers prefer to buy products that were consciously and unconsciously promulgated to their minds by large brands. Due to this, many local businesses, even with their quality products, cannot attract customers. The dominance of international brands thus ruins local business entities. As a consequence, many small local companies run out of business, and it can make thousands of people unemployed. Moreover, creative and deceptive advertisements and marketing policies of big players create a monopoly in the market which traps many consumers in believing that bigger brands mean prestige and quality. For instance, the dominance of international clothing and fashion brands had swept away many local businesses in many Asian countries, including mine, and money spent on advertisement played a big role here.
	To encourage people to purchase local products, some measures should be taken into account. The government should strictly monitor and ban any deceptive and illusory advertisements from the mass media. Besides, people should compare product quality before purchasing from shops, and the shop owners should be encouraged to shelf local products along with the branded products. Furthermore, authorities should rate and review any product and disclose it to the public. Finally, local product manufacturers should be financially supported by the banks and the government as they are helpful for the economic progress of a country.  
	To conclude, the absolute dominance of large businesses can have many negative effects that can damage the market and economy of a country. A solution to this problem is systematising local markets and creating a closely integrated system that can have an effective outcome.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2519-technology-is-gradually-taking-over-control",
Essay 166:
	Some people believe that technology adversely influences our lives and its manipulating aspects take control of our lifestyle. Others, however, hold the view that technology has many benefits to offer to humankind. This essay discusses both views. However, I think that technology will be advantageous as long as we control it, and do not let it control us.
	To begin with, technology has dramatically shaped the way people live, and it is constantly making our life easier. Quite often, tech developers announce innovative tech gadgets that are easy to use, handy, innovative, and life-saving. These devices improve people's lives significantly and we have a better lifestyle today than in the past due to the improvements and innovations in technology. For instance, mobile phones have been improved noticeably in terms of performance and usefulness. Nowadays, they are being used in every aspect of life including paying bills, making contacts, taking notes, surfing the internet and for many other practical purposes. The modern world is indeed defined by modern technologies.
	On the other hand, technology does not come without negative consequences. It has already started controlling many of our daily life aspects and can get more catastrophic than anyone could even imagine if it gets out of control. For example, everybody is using cellular devices these days, so they store their personal photos, contact details and even files on their phones. Thus, it is pretty easy for hackers to hack into someone's phone and misuse them. Online transaction fraud, malicious viruses and trojans, health hazards, lack of personal and social bonding are thus attributed to our inclination towards technology. We are meant to control the technology, not being controlled by it.
	In conclusion, even though technology has its disadvantages, it is undeniable that not everything that the human creates is flawless. Furthermore, technology can be very handy if it is used properly and with precaution. So, we should be in control of technology, not let it control us.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2518-university-should-focus-on-those-necessary-for-a-given-profession",
Essay 167:
	Many people believe that tertiary education should be focused on the future professions of students. Others, however, oppose this idea and opine that a university is a place to shape the overall ability of learners to create an enlightened nation. I agree with the latter view and believe that the way universities teach around the world is a far better setup than focusing only on job-centric education.
	First of all, in the modern world, the job sectors are dynamic and employees take on new challenges and work in diverse areas at their workplaces. Knowledge learned from the university subjects, only focused on careers, fails to enhance the overall skill of students. So, it can be catastrophic for a nation to have a workforce who have been taught job-related courses but were not introduced to the vast array of other aspects of education. Most of the companies, these days, search for people who are more dynamic and have diverse skills than candidates with good grades. For instance, most software development companies give priority to a candidate's performance, skill set and analytical ability than his academic results.
	Secondly, the competitive job sector all over the world forces many graduates to seek jobs in an entirely different sector than their majors in universities. Thus someone who graduated from IT is becoming a banker and someone from a finance background is working as an HR. Many also set up their own business instead of doing a job. It has all been possible due to a wide range of subjects that the universities have taught to those students.
	Furthermore, employees often need to enrol in different training and professional courses. Those who have finished a university degree with a wide range of subjects would do better in those training programmes and courses. For instance, IT professionals often take the MBA course and this is another good example of why university students should study an extensive range of subjects rather than studying some particular subjects for the jobs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2516-government-is-wasting-money-on-the-arts",
Essay 168:
	Arts reflect the heritage of a country and depict the creativity of an individual. While many believe that financing in arts is a wastage of money, I am of the opposite view as I believe that financing in arts is a good idea for the government.
	Many people think that diverting funds towards arts hamper the well-being of citizens and the development of the nation. For example, available monetary resources, according to them, could be put to use in building more hospitals, roads, schools and developing other infrastructures. This means increasing care of the sick and improved transportation to previously inaccessible areas. For children, it caters for better education facilities. These people believe that art is a luxury and many governments cannot afford this extravagance.
	However, while investments in such areas are vital, spending on arts is equally important. Allocating money to the development and sustenance of arts helps boost the economy, and arts are important to alleviate crime from society and positively entertain and engage people. Art galleries can attract tourists from all over the world, generating revenue in return while artists can reveal discrimination of society through their works. It is also the case that viewing and practising arts, such as painting, music, acting, dancing and so on, are good sources of venting out stress while educating people at the same time. Such activities also portray a positive picture of a nation to the world. If governments fail to support arts fiscally, many art galleries and theatres would not be able to survive. Arts is as important as science for the true progress of a nation.
	In pithy, it is clear to me that spending on arts is beneficial both for an individual and society. Therefore funding arts by the government is not squandering money.
Essay 169:
	Some people contend that there are many pressing concerns that a country must resolve before putting emphasis on the arts. However, I personally think that arts are an essential part of a culture, and it is quite fair to allocate funds to preserve and develop arts.
	Admittedly, there are some justifications by people who oppose spending on promoting arts. First of all, most art projects are expensive with no obvious outcomes that have direct relations to a nation’s income. For example, the monument of Kebangkitan Pahlawan in Malang city that adsorbed almost 1 billion rupiahs does not attract people that much. Besides, art is not a critical aspect of the sustainability of human’s life. Human’s life will not disappear just because they have less taste of aesthetics.
	However, I still support that the government should allocate a budget for the arts. Arts are part of a culture and over time become the identity of a nation, eventually, arts could be a major source of income for them. For instance, Bali is an island in Indonesia, where millions of visitors come each year to experience the combination of conventional values and modern lifestyles. The government in Indonesia invests more than a third of its budget to maintain its traditional arts.
	Furthermore, art makes a life worth living. Like food, art is a supplement for the human soul. It has a magnificent power to aid buildings, roads, parks, and everything, with its uniqueness. Just imagine how empty a room would be if there is no painting or decoration on the wall! Art is enhancing people’s life by leveraging their experiences and empowering people to possess beautiful imaginations.
	To conclude, supporting arts is important for a government as it would enhance the quality of life either by improving the tourism industry or by providing a better artistic facility.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2507-development-and-rapid-expansion-of-supermarkets",
Essay 170:
	The proliferation of supermarkets in rural and urban areas is on the rise, and it is thought to be beneficial by some and damaging to the local businesses by others. While people with both points of view continue to exist, I strongly believe that opening up shopping marts helps local communities to bloom and blossom.
	Proponents of the idea argue that international products render local investors out of business. As increasing numbers of cheap goods are available to choose from, sufficient funds may not be available to local people to produce items of comparable quality and sell them at a cheap price. For example, ever since the advent of Chinese cotton and food industries, the native Pakistani cotton fabric industry has almost shut down. This has also resulted in many individuals being unemployed, also leaving local contractors paralysed.
	However, while such problems do occur, large shopping areas, in fact, help to sustain local produce. Firstly, as competitors stock their articles from around the world, inhabitants of the area stand a better chance to sell their crops and finished goods to a greater number of customers. Generation of an increased amount of revenue would be a direct consequence, therefore, enhancing the gross domestic product in return. Moreover, the establishment of supermarkets can help foster pride en masse. This can be especially true in cases where local items occupy shelves of supermarkets, enabling purchases by international customers. Provided marketing strategies are put to use, a brand might become popular all over the world, thereby setting the stage for uplifting morale.
	To conclude, it is imperative that the growth and sustenance of supermarkets will fuel the survival of local communities and it is expected that more initiatives would be taken to expand supermarkets where local products are displayed and sold.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2505-paying-taxes-is-a-big-enough-contribution-to-society",
Essay 171:
	On the one hand, tax money helps the authority run the public service, pay salaries to government employees, take new development initiatives, fund research works, and offer subsidiaries to important sectors. So this money essentially helps run the country. Without the taxpayers' money, for example, the price of commodities will go up, no new roads would be built, education and medical treatment would be expensive. So it is understandable that a taxpayer is contributing to smoothly run the country and should be offered some benefits than non-taxpayers, and if required, they should be excused from other social responsibilities.
	On the other hand, it is undeniable that taxpayers are also benefiting from the money they are paying and should not be released from their other duties. Just paying tax should not allow someone to be above the law. These taxpayers should follow rules and also act virtuously to keep society on track. Besides, they have moral duties to people around them due to their financial well-off status. For instance, the highest taxpayers in society are usually the most powerful and financially successful persons, and due to their social influences, they have even more responsibilities to help needy people and take initiatives to save the environment and make the area a better place to live in.
	In conclusion, paying tax is important, but it does not automatically excuse them from obeying social rules, helping needy people and performing moral duties. It is expected that taxpayers would take more responsibilities in society to make it even better.
Essay 172:
	Some people think that making proper contributions to society can be achieved just by paying taxes, while others argue that other than paying taxes, people should fulfil more duties. This essay will elaborate on both of the views in detail.
	To begin with, paying taxes is certainly a big contribution to society as it gives financial resources to the authority for the development of a country. Since the public budget from the taxes is used in all crucial aspects of a nation, paying taxes undoubtedly is vital for each capable member of society. Tax money is used to develop infrastructures, like roads, hospitals, schools, and public facilities. It is also used to pay the salaries of civil servants who work for the government and society. Moreover, it can be used to give subsidies on education, medical treatment, fuel price and so on, which help ordinary and needy citizens to a great extent.
	Yet, to fulfil someone's responsibilities to society, people are required to abide by the rules and laws and make other contributions to make some positive changes in society. Indonesia, for example, as one of the biggest countries consisting of 34 provinces and more than 200 million people, needs such contributions from all of its members. Such countries direly need the involvement of citizens in supporting government-initiated programmes, especially by mutual cooperation as a form of contribution. By doing so, people can directly and immediately work together to protect their environment by initiatives like planting trees and cleaning up their surroundings, as well as protecting the public facilities. Being a law-abiding citizen means much than paying taxes.
	To infer, I am convinced that while paying taxes is a useful way to contribute to society, other social responsibilities have great importance as well.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2502-watching-sports-in-ones-free-time-is-just-a-waste-of-time",
Essay 173:
	Different kinds of sports are enjoyed by sports lovers around the world, and nowadays, it has become one of the common leisure activities, and so, some people argue that it is a waste of time and they advise opting for outdoor activities instead. In my opinion, watching sports on television is not a waste of time, but, there should be a balance between the time spent on watching sports and taking part in other social and recreational activities.
	First of all, watching sports is an excellent form of entertainment, relaxation, and for many, this is even a passion to follow. Moreover, People watch sports with others, which is a great way of socialising and enhancing the relationship. In my country, for example, watching live sports on TV has become an event of socialising and communicating with each other. However, spending hours after hours in front of a TV set to watch different sports and not doing anything is not recommended.
	On the contrary, many people claim that watching sporting events in free time every day is not a good habit or a healthy activity as this time could be better utilised by taking part in other social activities and skill development programmes. People, who watch TV most of the time, become isolated and develop unhealthy eating habit. Thus according to many, watching sports on TV has no significant benefits. They affirm that participating in outdoor activities are much healthier and advantageous.
	To conclude, we have to maintain a balance in our leisure activities; while enjoying sports is a good way of relaxation and socialisation, too much of it can be harmful. We have to choose plenty of various free-time activities, especially outdoor activities, to maintain a healthy lifestyle.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2501-parents-have-great-influences-on-childrens-development",
Essay 174:
	Influences of parents and family have great importance to the development of a child, according to many, while others opine that children's behaviour is influenced more by outside factors like friends, teachers and the environment. This essay will discuss both views, but, in my opinion, influences of parents, and family life are essential for the proper growth of a child, but environmental and external influences are more useful for them to confront life ad become successful.
	To commence with, parents have extraordinary impacts on their children's growth, especially to shape a good childhood. The sense of family, relationship, responsibility, and punctuality are instilled in a child by parents and it plays an influential role in their maturity. Love and attention from parents develop a strong character in a child while the lack of proper parenting often ruins it, according to many psychologists. Furthermore, children mostly mimic their parents and become more like them. Undoubtedly, this single fact proves how important it is for a child to have a family and good parenting.
	Conversely, to become successful and face life, we need to study in a school, interact with teachers and neighbours, have friends, face challenges, learn from our environment, gain social experiences, and all those factors have crucial roles to play in a child’s life. Parents keep their offspring safe from dangers while their real-life experiences teach them how to deal with those obstacles. Outside the home, children encounter different situations that teach them how to solve their own problems. Furthermore, children learn invaluable skills in schools which help them develop a sense of community to have a normal life beyond their family borders.
	To conclude, while parents have a huge impact on children’s attitude and growth, social interactions and external factors are imperative and cannot be ignored for a child's overall development, and in my opinion, more important.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2500-men-and-women-can-be-equally-suited-to-do-any-type-of-work",
Essay 175:
	Whether men and women have equal capacity to do any job or the type of work they do should be based on their natural features and inherent abilities is a widely debated issue. While some believe that both genders have an equal aptitude to do any sort of work, others, however, deny it. This essay delves into the issue and then draw a sensible conclusion.
	Another group, however, remains strict to the fact that men and women have different physical and mental capacities and these capacities make them more suitable for different types of professions. For instance, a woman is a natural caregiver and hence nursing is a more suitable profession for her. On the contrary construction works, one example of such many professions is suitable for men.  
	In conclusion, tasks for men and women are determined mostly by their natural abilities and this is a natural law. Denying it would not be a good idea and in my opinion, no task is less important and thus distinctive professions makes them perform better.
Essay 176:
	Whether natural aptitude should determine the kind of work both men and women should do or they are capable of doing the same type of work is somewhat controversial and require thorough discussion. This essay will explain both aspects. However, I believe that both genders are qualified to take the same challenge and are capable of doing similar jobs.
	From one perspective, women are generally considered physically weaker than men and hence less suitable for jobs that require ferocity and physical power. Men, on the other hand, are meant to provide and protect their wives and the entire family and earn the living. Secondly, the caring nature and tender heart that women possess make them more capable of certain careers. This means they generally perform better in occupations that require patience, caring and kind heart such as nursing, social works and teaching.
	From the opposite perspective, modern society does not discriminate against genders and offer any type of work to both male and female due to its fairness and advancements. Women and men who go to the same university and take the same training programmes are equally prepared to take a job. Again, the traditional idea that women will take care of their children while men will earn the living is changing and a reverse scenario could be seen in many families. Finally, women, in almost all fields, have already proved that they can perform as good as men if they are given the opportunity. So there is no way we can undermine their capability.
	In conclusion, although being naturally endowed may be beneficial for both genders in some situations, it is not particularly needed at workplaces. Learning and training are indispensable for men and women in any society to work for the same jobs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2499-state-which-media-you-consider-to-be-the-most-effective",
Essay 177:
	In today's world, various media have become quite significant in our life. I believe media like television, radio, book, film, theatre and comics have different advantages and disadvantages of their own as they have subtle differences in the way they convey messages and communicate information. The discussion about the positive and negative aspects of three media- TV, radio and books, will be outlined in the following paragraphs, and in my opinion, books are the most effective media for communicating information.
	First of all, as a modern medium, television has become a part of human life. Information presented on TV is easy to absorb and they are both informative and entertaining. However, it can make people passive, as the viewers just sit and watch it. Besides, research shows that TV programmes are addictive and can be a huge waste of time for many.
	Secondly, radio has an important value in our lives when it comes to conveying important information. This tool is helpful for visually impaired people, and we can work and enjoy radio programmes simultaneously, unlike TV programmes. We can carry it with us everywhere we go as modern radios are pretty small and are integrated with devices like smartphones. In contrast, radio signals are sometimes weak and limited only in a specific area. Over time, this medium is losing its popularity due to its technological limitations.
	Finally, books share invaluable information and contain important facts and stories. Data collected from the past are stored in books and help research works. By reading books people can broaden their imagination, enhance their knowledge and learn new things. Books are so far the best medium for communicating information - from generation to generation and past to present, and are the base of our modern civilisation. I believe the book is the most effective medium so far and will remain so for many coming generations. Except for the time and patience it requires, it hardly has any disadvantages.
	In conclusion, every medium for communicating information has some distinct advantages and demerits, but books are the most effective media that can enlighten our minds and convey knowledge from one generation to another.
Essay 178:
	These days, various types of media, such as books, film, theatre and so on are used for communicating useful information. This essay discusses the positive and negative aspects of television, radio and comics as media. In my opinion, radio is the most effective medium to communicate useful information.
	To commence with, many people like television because they can both listen to the information and visually see the events. News programmes inform people about national and international events and documentaries are a great source of learning materials. Should there be a special event in the country, most people would turn their TVs on and that makes it an effective tool to deliver different messages to the people. However, television has its own weakness as it is not mobile and thus often fail to reach people who are not home.
	Some people like the radio because of its mobility and entertainment programmes. Although many people consider it as old fashioned, others still prefer listening to the radio for obtaining useful information. People listen to the news, weather updates, traffic updates, music, discussions and so on while they drive, and it makes radio quite useful. However, it is not useful to people who have some sort of hearing impairment.
	Although several people think that comics are mostly for children, many adults still like reading comics. As comic conveys messages in the form of stories and dialogues, it is an effective tool for delivering important messages to young people. Despite the positive side, comic books have some drawbacks. The cost of producing comics is high and not all adults like to read them.
	To conclude, even though these media have both advantages and limitations, they are useful to people. The radio is the most beneficial tool to inform people and convey important messages because of its mobility. It is expected that these media would be used more effectively to help people learn and communicate important information with them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2490-widespread-use-of-internet-has-brought-many-problems",
Essay 179:
	The Internet is a revolutionary technology and it has changed the way people work, interact with each other and interchange information. But the negative consequences of it can not be overlooked and these problems stem mostly from the overuse and over-reliance on this technology. In this essay, the main problems of Internet technology with possible solutions will be discussed.
	To commence with the problems, widespread use of the Internet is related to new and innovative devices like smartphones and computers, and we replace those devices more frequently than ever. Thus we are creating a throwaway society and contributing to the production of more hazardous waste every day. Furthermore, social media, online games, chat rooms are contributing to digital addictions among many teenagers. Apathy, for instance, is one of the most severe consequences of overreliance on the Internet and that obstructs people from participating in social activities. Besides, people are becoming less active, both socially and physically, due to increased screen time. As a result, our health condition is deteriorating and our social life is in jeopardy. Finally, our privacy is hanging on an edge and our security is at risk due to our extensive dependency on the Internet.
	After investigating the causes of the problems, it will be easier to offer solutions. First, parents should encourage their children to take part in outdoor activities, and restrict their screen time. Second, we should buy new electronic devices only when this is absolutely necessary. Moreover, the use of the Internet in schools and workplaces should be monitored. The young generation should be encouraged to get involved in social activities and take charity works. Finally, we should make our Internet access more secure and follow the standard security protocol so that hackers and intruders cannot access and gain our personal information like passwords or credit card information.
	In conclusion, even though our society is becoming more dependent on the Internet and that can bring severe negative results, we have the solutions to mitigate these problems and enjoy the good side this technology offers us.
Essay 180:
	Many people believe that the Internet is the reason for many severe problems in society despite its numerous benefits. This essay will discuss some major problems of Internet usages and some of the solutions to resolve them.
	For several reasons, the worldwide use of the Internet is the root cause of several serious issues. Firstly, it provides access to many inappropriate contents to its users, including children. As a result, many teenagers are addicted to obscenity and violence which has impacted their psychological growth and academic performance. Secondly, it has diminished real-life communication between families, friends and relatives. With the existence of smartphones and tablets, social networking platforms and an active internet connection, people stay online for several hours a day. Consequently, they are less interested in having face-to-face conversations with others.
	To resolve the first issue, parents should monitor children's online activities. They should check their children's devices and advise them about the serious effects of accessing unsuitable content. Parents could also make a security setting for their home internet setting, whereas inappropriate websites will be blocked. As for the second issue, it requires the commitment of individuals and family members. For example, as parents need to lead by example, they should set examples by using gadgets for a certain period of time each day. Family members should be disallowed to bring their devices during mealtime, therefore there will be plenty of time for verbal interactions between them.
	In conclusion, the Internet has indeed brought some serious issues for many communities despite the marvel it has brought for the world. To address those issues, we have to be more active and conscious, act as family and society members while also monitor our younger members online activities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2488-encourage-the-use-of-bicycles-among-wider-population",
Essay 181:
	It has been a while since the eco-friendly transportation "bicycle" was first introduced, and its popularity seems to have declined in many countries over time. However, some effective measures could help encourage people in society to use it more widely.
	However, some useful measures can encourage more people to use this eco-friendly and healthful transport on the road again. Firstly, governments should implement separate cycling lanes that would ensure the safety of cyclists. In addition to that, providing secure parking facilities will also encourage many to use cycles. Restriction on car ownership and increasing the price of fuel would further encourage many to use bicycles instead of driving cars. Finally, awareness campaigns to educate people about the health and environmental benefits of using bicycles could be a great step to motivate more people to use this transport daily.
	To conclude, a government has a great role to play to motivate its citizens to use bicycles and this would guarantee a green environment and a healthy nation. It is also expected that more people use this green transport that would save the environment and keep them fit.
Essay 182:
	Riding a bicycle is good for our health and it is an environment-friendly mode of transportation. However, it is still not popular in many countries. This essay will discuss some of the reasons for this drift and several suggestions to encourage more people to use bicycles.
	In several countries, fewer people use bicycles these days than at any time in history. This is because many people still believe that riding a bicycle is only a sporting or recreational activity, and for commuting they need to ride on buses, trains or drive their automobiles. Secondly, since many city areas do not have any dedicated bicycle lanes, people find it risky to ride bicycles in busy streets. Without the existence of a separate bicycle lane, some people think that cycling to work would be dangerous as they have to share the road with car commuters and motorcyclists.
	The government can contribute significantly to persuade people to ride bicycles. One of the solutions is to provide separate cycling lanes for cyclists. Sufficient bicycle lanes in a city will encourage many residents to ride it for their daily commuting. Denmark, for example, has extensive bicycling lanes and that has positively encouraged citizens to cycle whenever possible. Another solution could be encouraging and informing people by launching campaigns about the positive health and environmental effects of cycling. Finally, government officials should set examples by using it daily while commuting to their workplaces. If government authorities ride cycles to offices, it is hoped that the public will also follow the example.
	In conclusion, cycling is still not widely prevalent in many countries. It is because of the mindset of the people who believe that cycling is a just sport. Besides, cycling lanes are not available in their countries as well. The government should take initiatives like building dedicated cycling lanes and running awareness campaigns to convince people to ride bicycles.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2487-violence-at-sports-events-is-on-the-increase",
Essay 183:
	Despite the increasing popularity of sports events all around the world, brutality concerning those events, particularly among fans, has globally grabbed attention. This essay elucidates the wagering of fans as one of the crucial ingredients for the conflicts and then connotes that setting heavy fines by authorities is a good solution.
	To commence with, we need to consider reasons for people who love sports to behave such irrationally, especially when they watch live sports. This should be examined from different perspectives to fully understand the purposes of this attitude. Monetary incentives, however, could widely be indicated as one of the chief agents for this misconduct. To illustrate, globally many people are addicted to betting on their favourite sportsmen or teams, ranging from football matches to horse riding competitions. The stress of not succeeding in their bet and correspondingly losing a great deal of money leads to accusing violent treatment. These behaviours might occur in the form of bothering or hurting other individuals or damaging public properties.
	Considering the diverse angles of this social phenomenon, setting a bunch of penalties against the populace particularly in gambling acts concerning sports events somehow could result in a fewer brutal etiquette of sport competition followers. As evidence, in some countries like Iran, wagering on any incident is identified as an unruly action in terms of legal and religion alike. Moreover, heavy fines could be waiting for offenders attempting to bet on games and sports competitions.
	To conclude, although the causes of violent behaviour in sports events are needed to be considered from a different angle, the financial losses stemming from losing wager can be suitably responsible for such manners. Nevertheless, it could be under control by legislating stricter laws regarding wagering, in particular, in the field of sports competitions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2486-education-and-health-care-should-be-funded-by-the-government",
Essay 184:
	Education and health care are two essential aspects of every human life. Without proper education and a good health care system, no nation can sustain, let alone progress ahead. Considering its significance, some people express their opinion that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure quality education and health service to its citizens. I strongly agree with this viewpoint.
	To commence with, according to the “National Sample” survey of India in 2019, people had to spend more than 35 per cent of their wages on health care and schooling. In a developing country, it is quite hard for citizens to manage it all on their own, especially since education and treatment are getting expensive every year. So, these should be free as poor people cannot afford higher education and a good health care system. Moreover, if the government provides free education, the literacy rate will surely increase and the citizens would contribute far better to the overall development of the country. So, in this way, the economy of that country will flourish day by day.
	Besides, another recent survey in India shows that almost 38% of people die every year without proper treatment because they can not afford expensive medical services. Since healthy citizens are the pillar of a prosperous nation, the government should intervene and make efforts to ensure proper healthcare for all. This way the country would develop faster while citizens would not be deprived of their basic rights. For instance, many countries, that are now considered developed, has had free medical care for all citizens and that boosted up their national development over the last few decades.
	In conclusion, if education and medical facility are provided by the government for free to its citizens, then a country will get more benefits from it. Education and healthy life are two basic needs of every citizen and a government is, in fact, formed to make sure no citizen is denied of their basic needs.
Essay 185:
	Some people believe that a government should provide free education and health care to its residents. To a certain point, I would agree with the idea, but I also believe that citizens should take some responsibility for their children's education and treatment for the family.
	For several reasons, many people believe that education and healthcare should be funded by the government and offered to the citizens without any cost. To begin with, most people fulfil their tax obligations, and they should get some benefits from the government in the form of free medication and education for their children. It is a fact that education is an essential factor for the development of a country. By providing free education to the residents it is hoped that more skilled and educated workers would be created for the country. These potential workers will definitely boost the country's economy in the future. So free education should be treated as an investment by the authority.
	One of the reasons to oppose the idea is that free medical service makes some people irresponsible of their health condition. It is believed that expensive health care would force people to follow a strict lifestyle and quit bad habits. Besides, the private fund for education makes the schooling system more effective as guardians are more conscious of taking care of their children's learning. For instance, many private schools are doing better in developing countries than the state-funded schools and parents' active involvement made the difference.
	To conclude, to a certain extent, I support that a government should provide free education and medication to its citizens. But I also believe that people should also be responsible for their own betterment when it comes to getting education and medical services.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2485-the-rich-are-becoming-richer-and-the-poor-are-becoming-poorer",
Essay 186:
	The gap between the wealthy and the destitute is getting wider in recent time as the rich people are getting wealthier while the poor are suffering even more. This essay discusses the problems that might arise due to this ever-widening gap between poor and rich, and solutions that could resolve the poverty problems to a great extent.
	The extensive differences in social classes could cause many severe problems for a country. When the elites get richer and the low-income people get poorer, crime, inequality and violence rate increases significantly. This issue could be a threat to the country's sovereignty and stability as there might be widespread protests and riots. One of the examples is the French Revolution that was primarily caused by social and economic discriminations. During the Revolution, the gap between the rich and the poor was extensive and it had caused the unstoppable riot. The gap is responsible to brings political instability and dissatisfaction among mass people. It hinders the progress of the country as well.
	The government could take numerous initiatives to resolve the issue and alleviate poverty. Firstly, the authority should make proper regulations in terms of business practice and create more job opportunities. Any monopoly and nepotism in important sectors should not be allowed. Secondly, the government must provide subsidies for low-income people. The fund for these subsidies could be allocated from income tax collected from the rich people and larger organisations. With the subsidies and job opportunities, it is hoped that the poor classes could improve their economic conditions.
	In conclusion, it is undeniable that the majority of global resources are controlled by a fraction of the population and this could become a serious threat to most countries. Creating more jobs and eliminating corruption could be effective measures to address the poverty problems.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2484-how-could-computers-be-considered-a-hindrance",
Essay 187:
	Computers are extensively used these days almost everywhere. This includes banks, offices, hospitals, homes, schools, research labs, retail shops, space stations and so on. People have different views about the benefits and drawbacks of computers while this essay examines how could computers be considered an impediment.
	To commence with, using computers for long hours by children is counterproductive because overuse of it can make children addicted to digital games, less enthusiastic to socialise, lethargic and obese due to the lack of their physical activities. Moreover, many children often rely on calculators and computers for simple arithmetic operations, spelling and grammatical rules. This can lead to poor academic and career performance. For example, a recent study reveals that many high school students fail to do well in mathematics due to their over-reliance on computers and calculators in early childhood. Apart from that, the health hazards that overuse of computers causes cannot be overlooked. Computers can be the reason for weak eye-sight, back pain and severe headache for the users - according to the Medical Alliance for Public Health.
	Besides, hacking, spamming, and computer viruses are very common these days which can lead to fraud, data breaching and monetary loss. When someone's bank account, email, and blog are compromised, it can lead to disaster. Furthermore, online perpetrators can pretend to be someone that they are not and trap people to take unfair advantages. In addition to that, the national security of any country could be compromised due to the over-reliance on computers. For instance, “Garry McKinnon” who was accused in March 2002 of perpetrating one of the biggest military computer hacks of all time, hacked the server of “The Pentagon” and learned about the secret of the country's defence.
	To conclude, every technology has both positive and negative sides and its overall impact depends on the people who use and control them. Rational and proper use of computer technology would benefit us tremendously, but it can also bring disaster when we are overly dependant on it or misuse it.
Essay 188:
	Many people believe that computer technology has immensely helped the human race to progress, but others opine that it has more drawbacks than benefits. This essay examines how could computers be deemed an obstruction rather than a blessing.  
	Many people are addicted to computer and Internet technology. They have no social and personal life as their screen time is unbelievably high. Without a computer, many people believe that they cannot work or continue their study. This dependency makes them less creative and more inert. For example, some people who work in modern offices cannot work when the Internet connection is interrupted. This over-reliance could bring catastrophic results, especially in sensitive sectors. A simple mistake in an atomic energy research centre can destroy millions of lives.  
	Moreover, it is undeniable that the overuse of computers has health hazards. One of the examples is the radiation from the computer screen, which damages our eyesight and cause headache. It has been reported that the number of people who wear glasses has increased significantly since the invention of computers. Besides, this device has negative effects on the way people socialise and interact with each other. With the invention of portable computers, tablets and smartphones, people remain busy with their devices rather than having face-to-face conversations or social interactions. They stay indoors and scarcely take part in outdoor activities. Consequently, people's overall health condition is deteriorating and their social relationship is becoming fragile.
	In conclusion, although computer technology has brought many benefits for mankind, it has many negative sides too. People's overreliance on technology mainly create those problems and it is hoped that we will use it to make our life easier, not more complex and perilous.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2483-communication-among-people-is-less-personal-now",
Essay 189:
	The modern communication system, with its innovations like phones and emails, has made our life comfortable while making communication cheaper, faster and widespread. However, some people express their concern that with the dependency on such technology and tools, comes the downfall of personal relation and interaction. I, however, disagree as I believe that they do not hurt human interaction or relation, rather accelerate it.
	To initiate with, emails, mobile phones and the internet help people stay connected with their dear ones no matter the distance. Before we had emails and cell phones, they could scarcely communicate with their family members. For instance, one of my cousins studies in New Zealand and he makes video calls, voice calls and sends emails and SMS to his family and friends almost daily, sometimes even multiple times a day. Thirty years ago my uncle had been in this same country, and he could rarely contact his family. A single letter he used to write sometimes took more than a month to reach his family. Thanks to modern technology, communication is more personal and more frequent than at any time in history.
	Moreover, modern communication methods save time and cost to a great extent and reach beyond borders. The speed of electronic mails and phone calls are amazing. They are live and instantaneous. Many of these services are free and takes almost no additional cost than just the internet bills. This is unprecedented since in the past international calls used to cost an arm and a leg of people. With technology in place, people nowadays are making new friends beyond borders. So it would not be an exaggeration to state that technology has made it possible to keep more personal relationships than ever. For example, Facebook has helped me find many of my childhood friends, and some of them live in faraway countries, perhaps with whom I would not be in touch otherwise.
	In conclusion, I would like to say that, telephones and emails have many positive impacts on our relationship and communication. Without those, modern-day communication would have been broken and infrequent.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2482-people-are-leaving-rural-areas-to-live-in-the-city",
Essay 190:
	The world has never witnessed such a great influx of population from rural areas to cities that it did in the last decade, and it is still ongoing. Cities are already over-populated, polluted and cramped with an overwhelming number of people. Only decentralisation and mandatory relocation can reverse the scenario.
	To begin with, only 20 per cent of the world population lived in cities at the beginning of the 20th century while this has already escalated to over 80%. This over-population in cities increases the crime rate, contributes to environmental pollutions, declines the living standard of citizens, creates cut-throat competitions and makes living cost higher. The traffic congestion is a direct result of it that kills thousand of man-hours each day. Besides, the housing problem in cities is getting worse day by day. According to a recent study, the lifestyle of cities is declining faster with the dramatic increase of its population.
	To stop people from moving to metropolitan areas, the government has to adopt an effective decentralisation policy. If enough civil facilities and employment opportunities are created in the rural and suburban areas, a few people would move to cities. People primarily migrate to big cities to have better careers and earning prospects. To reverse it, the government has to start big projects to empower the rural people and forcibly move many factories and facilities to nearby countrysides. Education, treatment and entertainment facilities in cities attract many rural people and the only way to stop this influx of people is to add those facilities to the countrysides as well.
	In conclusion, cities become less habitable with the inflow of mass people who come to have a better life but eventually face more problems. Decentralisation could be a very effective solution to invert this concerning trend.
Essay 191:
	Rapid migration of people from rural areas to cities has created serious concerns in many countries. This essay suggests that a higher population is one of the profound impacts of this phenomenon that leads to numerous issues. It also proposes that creating facilitating, specifically entertainment and employment in rural areas, as a solution to it.
	Undoubtedly, a great number of city-dwellers, particularly in megacities is a major challenge for the municipalities and state authorities, which could considerably stem from the depopulation of rural areas. As a case in point, a vast number of the country residents have immigrated to Tehran in recent years. Because of this, Tehran is one of the most populous cities which leads to higher living costs, accommodation scarcity, pollution, traffic congestions, increasing crime rates and unhygienic living standard.
	Straightening out the problem of rural depopulation would not be practically simple. Yet, the government's investing in facilitating rural areas by recreation facilities and creating more job opportunities could be somehow effective in terms of persuading pastoral people rather than migrating to big cities. To illustrate, some way-out cities in Europe have implemented several projects concerning installing some recreation centres near the countries, which have notably attracted rural people. In this way, it has been possible to control the migration to cities. Besides, many rural people migrate to cities for better jobs, treatments or education. Establishing quality schools, healthcare centres, and creating more employment opportunities could effectively reduce the migration trend.                                                   
	In conclusion, over-population in cities creates numerous problems that threaten the living standard of cities. One of the prudent solutions to overcome the mass influx of rural people to cities is to create more job scopes and build civic facilities for them in rural and suburban areas.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2477-many-people-say-smoking-should-be-banned",
Essay 192:
	Banning smoking is a controversial issue as many people strongly support this ban while others disagree with it. It has been around for centuries and in many countries, public smoking is prohibited and against the law while it is open in many other countries. There are discussions and arguments about whether smoking should be banned completely or not.
	First of all, smoking is detrimental to health. It causes lung cancer which ultimately leads to death. It might take a long time to show symptoms but it always happens. Secondly, it is a waste of money as smokers spend a lot of money on the cigarette. Addiction to smoking leads to addiction to marijuana, yaba etc. Eventually, addicted people get involved in different types of crimes. They start collecting money by stealing, lying and robbing and the severity of the crime keeps on increasing. Moreover, smoking not only harm the smoker but also the people around them. Recent studies on smoking suggest that passive smoking is as harmful as active smoking.  
	On the contrary, the tobacco industry is the source of huge tax for the government. Government makes the best utilization of the tax money by building schools, mosques, overhaul streets etc. Thousands of people work in cigarette-related industries and this creates huge job opportunities. If smoking is banned completely, these people will become unemployed. Another vague benefit of smoking is that smokers believe smoking refreshes their minds and relieves them from tension and stress, though it has not been scientifically proved. Some people think that banning smoking is like imposing restriction on people's freedom and they completely oppose the idea of imposing restrictions on smoking.  
	Up to this point of view, we see that there are opinions for and against the banning of smoking. I believe, the government should think rationally and wisely before they make any decision about prohibiting smoking. Personally, I believe that public smoking should be prohibited and any violation of this rule should be penalized but a complete ban on smoking should be made slowly and with proper planning.
Essay 193:
	First of all, smoking is severely detrimental to public health. It causes lung cancer which ultimately leads to death. Secondly, smoking is a complete waste of money, and addiction to smoking sometimes leads to enslavement to other illegal substances. Eventually, many addicted people get involved in different types of crimes to manage the money they need to abuse illegal substances. Finally, smoking not only harms the smoker but also the people around them. Recent studies on smoking suggest that passive smoking is as harmful as active smoking.
	Having said that, the tobacco industry is a huge source of tax for the government. The authority makes the best utilization of the tax money by building schools, parks, overhaul streets and other public facilities that serve ordinary people. Millions of people work in cigarette-related industries, and if smoking is banned completely, these people will lose their jobs. Some smokers believe that smoking relieves them from tension and stress, though it has not been scientifically proven. Finally, some people think that banning smoking is like restricting people's freedom.
	In conclusion, I believe that the government should take initiatives rationally about prohibiting smoking. Public smoking should be prohibited and any violation of this rule should be penalized, but a complete ban on smoking should be made slowly and with proper planning.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2476-girls-and-boys-benefit-more-from-attending-mixed-schools",
Essay 194:
	The school environment, teachers and the curriculum play a crucial role in developing students' overall performance and personality. Having studied in both settings - all girls and mixed school environment, I have experienced the differences between these two systems. And, I believe that mixed schools offer more benefits to students.
	No doubt, girls and boys are different with respect to their thoughts, preferences, physical orientations and the way they respond to different situations. Studying in a same-sex school unquestionably helps students become comfortable with their classmates and develop comradery easily. It saves them from unnecessary distractions and helps them focus more on their studies.  
	However, when girls and boys study, play and work on school projects together, they learn from each other, and this activity catalyses moral respect. It allows them to understand their mutual differences better and be more considerate towards each other. The neutral treatment helps them to look beyond gender and treat individuals equally. Such students find it comparatively easier to cope with mixed-gender situations, at offices or on social occasions. Subsequently, it facilitates them with skills to create meaningful and lasting relationships with people.
	Moreover, men and women share the same workspace in modern offices. Being able to work efficiently with colleagues is just as important as having the right skills for a job. Even outside the workspace, one has to interact with both genders almost on a daily basis. Thus, the mixed school atmosphere prepares students for life outside its compound walls.
	To conclude, I believe that students get an opportunity to develop their overall social skills when they study in mixed schools. It exposes them to shared activities and prepares them for future job places.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2474-how-can-we-overcome-the-problems-of-poverty",
Essay 195:
	More than 70% of global resources and wealth are controlled by only 7% of the population and it shows the overwhelming disparity of the resource distribution throughout the world. As a result of capitalism and improper distribution of facilities and resources, the poor are becoming even poorer while the rich are amassing more wealth. This causes unimaginable problems to the human and some steps should be implemented immediately to reduce the discrimination of wealth distribution.
	To begin with, the inequality of wealth distribution increases delinquency. It is noticeable that the crime rate all around the world has significantly increased as the wealthier are getting more affluent and the poor are suffering to support their basic needs. The overall development of a country does not depend on a tiny portion of rich people, rather it depends on an active economy and fair wealth distribution. Moreover, when the discrimination between rich and poor increases, the political situation deteriorates and a country steps into the verse of corruption and civil war.
	To overcome the poverty problem the state must emphasise quality education. Education is the single most important answer to this problem. Moreover, the government should utilise the resources a country has and support the small and medium entrepreneurs by providing subsidies. Finally, very fundamental needs like education and treatment should be funded by the state. For example, according to a recent article in a research journal, most rich nations in the world have been successful due to their better education system and fair governance system.  
	To conclude, the increasing gaps between rich and needy brings many predicaments to a country and quality education is the solution to the poverty problem. The government must ensure an active economy in the country to ensure fair resource distributions.
Essay 196:
	The gap between the rich and the poor is widening fast than ever throughout the world. This enormous gap certainly causes a lot of problems that a nation must endure solving through various means. This essay discusses the problems associated with paucity and proposes some solutions to alleviate poverty.
	There is almost an endless list of problems that stem from poverty. To name a few, scarcity of food, water, and clothing, weak shelters, the spread of dangerous diseases, indulgence in criminal activities, mental illness and low life expectancy. Poor people are trapped in horrendous insufficiency and cannot educate their children. The root cause of poverty is the lack of proper education and hence problems related to employment. This creates an evil circle of scarcity for poor families that they can not break. Moreover, poverty increases crimes in an area and this disturbs social harmony. Where the poor are struggling even harder to meet their basic means, the rich are getting pampered by the wealth and luxury. This discrimination can even lead to civil war.
	In order to overcome the problems of poverty, governments should do a careful and considerable analysis of the distribution of funds and wealth throughout the country. Non-profit voluntary organisations should work actively in rural areas for the upliftment of the poor, mainly in education and skill development areas. Furthermore, the rich and the prosperous should contribute financially and work selflessly towards creating job opportunities and helping destitute people.
	To conclude, the world would be a better place to live in only if we keep poverty from rising beyond limits. Poverty is a curse and a collaborative effort, education and employment opportunity can mitigate it to a great extent.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2473-children-brought-up-in-families-with-less-money-are-better-prepared",
Essay 197:
	Childhood "experience" and "learning" determine someone's personality and ascertainment to prosper in life. Some people believe that children in wealthy families are over-indulged and do not learn many important lessons to face future challenges while middle-class and lower-middle-class families better prepare their offsprings. Personally, I believe that better parenting, regardless of family wealth or status, is more important.
	To begin with, children from less wealthy families learn to face difficulties in life from early childhood. They know that they need to work hard to succeed in life, and they start to appreciate the value of money and time. It gives them a competitive advantage to face life in the future. For instance, the highest scorer in our college was from a lower-middle-class family and he devoted most of his time to study. He valued excellent academic results more than most students from wealthy families. He was convinced that the only way to get out of their financial problems was to become the top scorer and have a better career in the future. No doubt, this determination, hard work and mind-setup will help him become successful in life.
	Reversely, children from wealthy families, most of the time, get better facilities, education and career opportunities. Despite being an average student, Patrick, one of my classmates, got admitted to the best private university in our country. This exemplifies that he has a better career prospect than the top scorer in our college. So, the connection, influence and money that rich families own often help them better educate their children while also giving them a head start in life.
	Personally, I believe that parenting is more important than having and spending money on children. It is not always the money that makes someone successful and a good citizen. When parents implant good qualities among children, these qualities alone can make a difference in their life.
	To conclude, though it is generally believed that children from less fortunate families are better prepared for the future, I believe that proper parenting is far more important than any other factor.
Essay 198:
	Money plays a pivotal role in people's social and family life, and it influences the way a child grows up and prepares to meet future challenges. Usually, rich families compensate better life for their children, but some people argue that children who are brought up in less wealthy families are often better prepared to face difficulties in life. However, I strongly believe that children from affluent families get better opportunities and better prepared for future challenges.
	On the one hand, many believe that families with less money prepare their children more realistically. Those children admittedly learn to face obstacles in their childhood that gives them an advantage when they grow up. They also learn to appreciate the value of money, savings, time and hard work, and the importance of family tie. They are not pampered for everything they want or need, rather they need to earn them through hard work. Therefore they automatically prepare for setting a target in life and make plans for pursuing them.
	On the other hand, children from wealthier families are sometimes a little behind in terms of learning many important lessons in childhood when compared with the mindset of their counterparts. However, they have all the facilities they need for their education and future career. For instance, they are well adorned to go to the best schools, have the best teachers to teach them, money and connections to start a business or join a job, and affluent family to support them whenever needed. Furthermore, those families build the foundation for their children to begin their life- a much-needed push to have a better career. These rich children eventually learn the most important aspects of life, maybe a little later than the poor children, but they have far greater facilities that ultimately give them advantages in life.
	To conclude, money and education build a better future life. Because of that, wealthier children have a much better and flexible life than poor children. Therefore, I believe children from wealthy families get a competitive advantage over children from poor families in terms of education and preparation for the future.
Essay 199:
	Who get better prepared to face life - people who were raised lavishly or in a destitute condition, is debatable. I agree that children who were raised in a low-income family are better at facing life than those who came from an ultra-rich family.
	For several reasons, many believe that children who are brought up in middle and low-income families are better prepared to face life. Firstly, these children are accustomed to living a simple lifestyle and they know the value of time, money and relationship. Instead of having their own room, with all the toys and comfortable beds in the room, they had to sleep with their siblings in a small room with a limited number of toys and facilities. They learn how to share important things, take care of others, manage the budgets and most importantly become contented with whatever they have. As these children do not have many luxuries in life, they would easily adapt to the harsh conditions. Secondly, these children are already taught to be independent at an early age. Many of their parents could not afford to pay school tuition fees, therefore they have to have a part-time job to pay the fees. Thus they learn to be independent at an early age.
	Moreover, children who are raised in rich families will face difficulties when they grow up and face the real world. One of the reasons is that their parents have always provided them with all the materials they wanted and needed. They get fancy clothes, expensive toys and the latest gadgets without having to work hard. As they rely heavily on their parent's wealth, they will face problems if there is a financial crisis.
	To conclude, the upbringing of children defines who they will become in the future. Since families with less money have to teach children to work hard, save money and become satisfied with thing things they have, they are better prepared in life than their rich counterparts who got everything ready for them by their family.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2470-shopping-in-shopping-centers-or-local-markets",
Essay 200:
	Shopping complexes have become more popular than local markets, especially in many cities, because of the different advantages they offer. Despite this, people still prefer local markets due to the benefits they grant. This essay will discuss the advantages of each type of marketplace. Personally, I prefer shopping centres over local markets.
	On the one hand, modern shopping malls have a far better environment and a variety of shops in a single place. The shops are organised, give a better shopping experience, and save time by allowing customers to get whatever products they need under one roof. Moreover, the environment of shopping malls is way better than that of local markets. These shops accept digital payment methods, such as credit and debit cards, which is suitable for such cardholders. It is often said that shopping malls are the future of shopping while local markets are the concept of bygone days.
	On the other hand, local markets also offer a wide range of advantages and products to people. The freshness of vegetables, fishes and fruits could be a great advantage of shopping from local markets. The cheap price is another reason why many people think local markets are better places for shopping. Local small business vendors sell their products in such a traditional market and they often support the local economy. Therefore, these advantages exemplify the advantages and importance of such traditional markets.
	To conclude, shopping centres and local markets both have various positive aspects. The preference often depends on the type of product we buy and the convenience we seek. I believe shopping centres provide me with a better shopping experience, and that is why I mostly shop from a shopping centre.
Essay 201:
	People have different preferences in term of shopping places and shopping experience. Many people choose to shop from a mall or plaza while others like to buy goods from a traditional market. The following paragraphs outline the benefits of both settings. My preference, however, is a traditional market because I like to bargain price and buy fresh products.
	For several reasons, some people decide to purchase goods from a large shopping centre. Firstly, shopping in a shopping mall is safer than that of local markets. Malls and plazas are equipped with a surveillance system, while security guards make sure no snatching and robbery take place. Secondly, shopping in a mega-complex is more convenient and comfortable as most shopping malls are equipped with air conditioners that make the temperature soothing. Facilities like a play zone for children, credit card payment, cineplex, food court etc. attract many more customers.
	However, some people still prefer local markets for various reasons. It is a fact that product prices in a traditional market are comparatively cheaper. Besides, many unique and traditional products are not sold in modern shopping complexes but are available in local markets. For examples, many traditional and handmade crafts are only sold in local markets, and each item is unique because it is a custom made product. Finally, the freshness of fishes, fruits and vegetables in a local market is perhaps the most significant advantage for choosing it over a large shopping centre.
	In conclusion, it is undeniable that shopping in modern shopping centres and traditional markets have their own positive aspects. I personally like to shop at a local market because I could buy things at a better price and get fresh fruits and vegetables whenever I want.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2469-very-few-school-children-learn-about-the-value-of-money",
Essay 202:
	Schools usually deal with different academic subjects while overlook teaching money management skills. This is why many students, who do well in school, struggle while taking care of their finances in real life. Academic studies and financial intelligence cannot be seen as inherent contradictions but as two mutually independent competencies. So, I believe that the value of money and money management should be taught in schools.
	The author of the book “Rich Dad Poor Dad” terms Financial Independence as you being able to make your money work for you and not the other way around. Students who get to learn about how to spend, invest and save money rarely find themselves in financial predicaments despite what their salaries bring in. Such skills are often inculcated through family and teachers. And students, who lack these skills, usually find themselves with insufficient funds no matter how much their jobs pay them. They never learn to develop their assets. It renders them dependents on their jobs for life as it is their only source of income. The earnings are mostly spent on their liabilities leaving them with paltry savings.
	If money management is taught as a part of the school curriculum, all the students will get a chance to learn such skills. They will grow up to have more knowledge of money and finance. Consecutively, they will have a better perspective while making financial decisions. This will lead to a more stable, enriched and self-reliant society. Lessons learned in schools last for a long and that is why teaching money management to students is so vital.
	To conclude, earning money may not be the goal in life but it is the money that provides us with our basic needs and a sense of security. Learning the skills to value and handle money is a crucial part of life. Thus, I believe that lessons for financial management should be made a part of the school curriculum so that more and more students can have a financially stable future.
Essay 203:
	Money management skill is undoubtedly important, but if it should be a part of the academic curriculum is debatable. Many schools are already overwhelmed with the subjects they teach, and adding personal financial affairs to the syllabus would make things worse. Moreover, this is a skill that teachers cannot instil in a person through lectures and exams. This is why I believe that parents should take this responsibility.
	To commence with, no matter how many chapters someone reads or how many exams he or she takes on the value of money in life, until this person earns, saves and invests money, it is impossible to learn the practical aspect of personal finances for him or her. Teachers are not in a position to decide whether a student should work besides study, and manage his or her finance. Parents, on the other hand, are ideal to monitor and supervise this aspect. They can teach their children the value of money and put them in situations when they need to take responsibility.
	Moreover, learning to manage someone's finance is a different type of skill that class lectures cannot teach. Finally, a teacher does not know every aspect of a student's family and their financial condition. This is why the same lecture is not suitable for all students when it comes to making financial decisions. Opposed to that, parents are in a far better position to let their children learn this essential life skill.
	To conclude, money management is a practical aspect of life and theoretical classes conducted by school teachers are ineffective to develop this great skill. Parents, on the contrary, should take command of this aspect and prepare their children to value money and handle personal finance efficiently.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2468-people-should-take-regular-driving-tests-throughout-their-lives",
Essay 204:
	In most countries, people take a driving test before they are granted a driving licence, and its renewal does not require retaking the test. Some bureaucrats, however, suggest that repetitive tests should replace the conventional "once in a lifetime test" policy. The proposed policy has some advantages but the drawbacks are far greater.
	To commence with, the repetitive driving tests seem like a solution to the increasing driving offence, but in reality, people's carelessness, violation of traffic rules and drunk driving are the main causes for most road accidents. Therefore the authorities should spend more money and manpower for ensuring road safety than retesting the driver's ability. It is a scientific fact that adept drivers are less likely to forget their driving skills unless they lose their sanity. Considering this, the authority should update the drivers about the changes in traffic rules, and make them aware of road safety, not test their ability every year. Finally, strict punishment and penalties should be imposed for the traffic rule violation to get the desired result.
	Furthermore, a periodic driving test would waste people's money, time and energy on the one hand, and drain the government's budget on the other hand. According to a recent report, new applicants have to wait for several weeks to get a driving licence due to the insufficient facility and manpower, for example. Having the repetitive driving skill test would thus make this far worse and completely unmanageable.
	To conclude, rather than questing people's ability to remember how to drive, strict policies and road safety should be given priority. Drivers should be educated, not tested on their ability to drive a car as this proposed policy would add burden both to the ordinary people and the authority.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2464-people-decide-to-have-children-later-in-their-life",
Essay 205:
	These days many couples decide to have babies at least a few years later since their marriage. I believe career, social changes, escalating living expenses, and increased life expectancy are some of the major reasons behind this trend. In my belief advantages of having children later in life outweigh its demerits.
	To commence with, a growing number of people, including women, are now serious about their career development. This is perhaps the primary reason they do not expect to have children in the early stage of their marriage. It is intuitively obvious that with huge competition, unemployment and economic crisis, people around the world are constantly worried about their careers and salary. As a result, many decide to postpone their first childbirth. Secondly, women empowerment and social changes have altered the old way of life where a woman's sole responsibility was to look after the children. Since many wives are working these days, they decide to take babies after they reach a certain position in their career.
	Furthermore, social belief regarding giving birth to children has changed dramatically, and people are more concerned about the living expenses than the number of babies they have, unlike in the past. Finally, enhanced life expectancy has also contributed to this trend as people believe they can wait a little longer to have their first baby.
	Undeniably, people who choose to concentrate on their career first and then have babies can take better care of their children due to ample career and economic freedom. Having offspring early in life can escalate the expenditures and financial responsibilities of parents. Moreover, if they do not spend enough time with children, they grow up with psychological issues. Thus,  by having early children, young parents might put their careers at a risk as well as the future of their children. Reversely, having offspring in early life have few advantages. Such parents have new members in their family and their isolation would be extirpated and they will become more family-oriented.
	In conclusion, despite the pleasure of having a new baby in the early years of marriage, parents who decide to have babies later can focus on their career, fulfil financial goals and have sufficient time to spend with the family.
Essay 206:
	With paradigm shifts in social beliefs and people's fascination with careers, they tend to become parents at a later stage. Several reasons are responsible for this, and I believe that it has more negative consequences.
	To begin with, the average year when people get married those days has increased significantly. As a result, childbirth is naturally delayed. According to a recent survey, many young people who start their career after their graduation are more focused on their jobs than having their own family. Besides, many young people are undecided whether to marry or not. Eventually, when they get married, many of them are already in their mid-thirties, and they take some time to settle and have some financial stability before having their first child. Furthermore, the old belief that a girl should manage a family and have children earlier have changed, and more wives work in offices than ever. The decline of the joint family has also contributed to this trend as couples solely decide to have a baby, unlike in the past.
	If we notice the severe detrimental impacts this trend has, we would surely try to reverse it. The most cynical outcome of this trend is the number of couples who struggles to become parents. It is scientifically proved that the infertility rate among couples is higher who try to become pregnant after their mid-thirties. Some of the couples eventually break up their marriages due to this, and it brings unfathomable social problems. Furthermore, having a child in the early years of marriage make the couple more family-oriented and this eventually help them have a better future.
	To conclude, late marriage, nuclear family structure, and more focus on jobs are the main reasons people become parents at a later stage in their lives. I think this trend has more adverse results than its positive outcome. So it is expected that married people would carefully consider different negative and positive aspects of having babies later in their life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2454-differences-between-countries-become-less-evident-each-year",
Essay 207:
	Many aspects of culture and people's lifestyles are becoming increasingly similar throughout the world. Although this trend has some benefits, I would agree that the disadvantages are more noteworthy.
	On the one hand, the global reach of fashion brands, similar eating habits and similar traditions of people have some major benefits. For instance, Starbucks, the renowned coffee chain, has grown from a single outlet in Seattle to as many as 30,000 shops in around sixty countries. Nearly identical stores serve cups of coffee to hundreds and thousands of customers, no matter whether you are sipping it in New York, London, New Delhi, Melbourne or Istanbul. Thus the global business opportunity enables many brands to sell products all around the world. As a result, people can enjoy fashion, food and other aspects of diverse nationalities staying at home country. A stronger bond could be observed among people no matter where they live as a consequence of their similar lifestyle. Thus the differences among nations are reducing and this is quite helpful in maintaining world peace.
	On the other hand, this trend has some striking disadvantages that we should be cautious about. Firstly, the spread of cross-cultural materialistic lifestyles and attitudes makes us less human and more selfish. For example, the role of TV advertisements by global brands, in most cases, is related to the concept of materialism. We are affected by terminal materialism that forces us to buy things for the sake of buying, instead of buying for basic needs. Secondly, with the aggressive spread of market economies and communication technology, local cultures and values are in peril. The true identity and culture are in jeopardy with the influence of alien cultures and the new generation cares less about their history and tradition.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that the drawbacks of globalisation and the similar lifestyle of people due to the similar culture in the world far outweigh the few advantages it has.
Essay 208:
	The discrimination among nations in terms of people's lifestyle, access to information, eating habits and cultural aspects are diminishing with the effect of globalisation and widespread acceptance of technology. Some people see it as a threat to cultural identity, but I take it as a positive sign in terms of improved lifestyle and a better relationship among nations. Without a doubt, the merits of this exceed the disadvantages.
	To begin with, globalisation and free trade concepts, that led to the similarities among nations, were not imposed by a rich nation on the rest of the world. Rather, it was a demand of the time that has reduced the gap among countries over time. For example, someone from a developing nation, these days, can avail the same branded clothes, food, technological devices and so on a citizen in an industrialised country can have. This not only enhances the freedom of choice for people but also opens the windows of opportunity to local brands on the international stage. If countries look more similar around the globe, it means just one thing - the wealth and life standard gaps among people are declining.
	Moreover, the trend reduces the cultural gap among nations and help maintain world peace. Also, a growing number of people nowadays go to rich nations for study and work, and similar culture makes them adapt to a foreign country more easily. Freedom of the press and easy access to global information has accelerated this trend and there is no stopping to it.
	Finally, the culture and tradition of a nation change over time even without the interference of any alien influence. Hence restricting the overwhelming facilities this trend brings is not a good idea at all, especially when the world still has a huge wealth gap and animosity among nations.
	To conclude, the wealth and power gaps among nations may lead to conflicts, and this is why people should be treated as global citizens rather than citizens of a specific country. To make this dream come true, international brands, TV channels and other global facilities should be present in every corner of the world.
Essay 209:
	Differences among nations are becoming less perceptible these days as people all over the world are sharing the same lifestyle, technology, fashion, foods, advertisements, and entertainment programmes. As a result, cultural identity and traditions are in peril. The following essay advocates that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits of this trend.
	The first benefit of this trend is that international brands can produce goods on a mass scale, and the manufacturing cost becomes cheaper. As a result, consumers enjoy the advantage of buying products from global brands at an affordable price. Secondly, people all over the world share the same culinary experience, and that is why they have more food options than ever before. For example, people around the globe can now purchase food based on their preference, whether it is Chinese, Indian or Western food or brands. Furthermore, this trend reduces the cultural barrier and brings people under a common platform where people will have more knowledge and respect about other nations and their customs.
	On the contrary, the globalisation of the fashion, entertainment and culinary industries have some severe negative sides. First, many people abandon their cultural values due to this, which hurts the identity of a country. Besides, foreign television shows have negative influences on young people. Many global TV channels, for example, show programmes that are sensitive to other cultures. However, as these shows are easily accessible nowadays, many young people follow them, and as a consequence, adopt a non-acceptable lifestyle and life choices.
	In conclusion, the globalisation of fashion, advertising, culinary and entertainment products have both advantages and disadvantages. But, carefully considering both, I strongly feel that it has more negative effects than positive aspects.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2446-a-country-should-try-to-produce-all-the-food",
Essay 210:
	Ensuring food adequacy for the entire population has been a major concern for nations throughout the centuries. Some people believe that the government should focus on producing all kinds of food while importing as little as possible to ensure food sufficiency. I firmly believe that producing many kinds of food is an inevitable effort in terms of ensuring the nation’s food security.
	Firstly, the more a country relies on imported food, the more food crisis it faces. Food import includes transportation costs, taxation and other charges that eventually increase the food price. To tackle this problem, a government should allocate more budgets to improve national production by maximising the collaboration of research centres with farmers. Related university courses and diploma programmes can create more talented individuals who would be involved in domestic food production. Furthermore, by mass production of all kinds of food items, a country can prepare for the rainy days.
	Secondly, by focusing on farming, irrigation and planting, a government can decrease unemployment problems. For example, in Indonesia, the farming sector creates the highest percentage of jobs. More than 50 per cent of Indonesians are directly or indirectly depends on the agriculture sector.
	Finally, imported food does not have the same quality and freshness as locally produced food and crops. If food is imported from a long distance, the food value degrades and in some cases, toxic chemicals are used to preserve the imported food. Thus the local production of foods would ensure better food quality and sound health of citizens.
	In conclusion, preventing the food crisis, ensuring better food quality and decreasing unemployment could be achieved if a country becomes self-sufficient in its food production. It is expected that countries would emphasize their domestic food production as it gives many competitive advantages over importing.
Essay 211:
	Every country wants to reduce its dependency on imports while maximising its exports including items such as food and crops. However, not all countries have the same geographic location, weather condition, technology and suitable lands to produce each type of crop the citizens need. This is why a country should focus more on its overall economic growth rather than using manpower and budget to become self-reliant on food.
	To commence with, soil, weather condition, available lands, technology and demographics of a county determine what crops, vegetables and fruits it can produce. Not all countries have the same geographical features and manpower, and thus, it is obvious that the country needs to import some of the items. In many cases, this is rather advantageous than producing or growing crops and then harvesting the grains. For instance, it is impossible for an Arab country to produce all types of foods due to its weather condition. If they focus on growing these food items and engage their manpower to do that, their economic growth would be hindered.
	Moreover, a country like Germany and China can focus on manufacturing and industrial innovation while import food from other countries. The ultimate outcome is more beneficial for them. However, this might not be the case for a country that solely depends on the agriculture sector and when a majority of its population are already dependant on it. They can focus on improving their productions, but this model is not suitable for industrial countries.
	To conclude, I believe that free trade and globalisation have made the world a global village. And with the speedy transportation system, food import cost has already declined. Since fulfilling the mass people's diverse needs for various kinds of food is not feasible for a country, it should focus on its true potential rather than allocating budget and manpower to become self-dependent on food.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2445-economic-progress-is-the-most-important-goal",
Essay 212:
	Governments, all around the world, have visions to fulfil, and responsibilities to carry on, and they seek to achieve the overall development of their countries for a prosperous future. Thus many governments think that economic progress is the key to success while others disagree with this notion and opine that many other aspects such as green environment, security, social values, traditions and peace among nations are more important. I personally believe that the economic success of a nation is an important goal for a government but it is not the most important one.
	To begin with, many developed countries have already gained economic progress and yet they are suffering from growing crime rates, hostile relationship with other nations, corruption and outbreaks of epidemic diseases. Thus economic progress has failed to ensure a better life standard for citizens. It proves that only economic progress should not be the vision of a government. On the contrary, without economic stability, a government cannot ensure advancement in education, defence, healthcare, international trade and social safety.
	Again, industrialisation and success in trades have ensured economic stability to many western and Asian countries, and yet the environmental damage that has been caused is overwhelming. No good money would bring to a nation if it fails to build a safe and green environment for the next generation. However, many people would also argue that it is better to bestow a prosperous country to the new generation rather than leaving them a broken economy.
	Furthermore, economic progress requires industrialisations, dominance in international trade and the use of cheap labour from other countries. History tells us that wars are imminent due to irrational competition among nations. On the contrary, without economic success, a country cannot defend itself from external threats, fight epidemic diseases and cannot ensure proper health care facilities for its citizens. Finally, some would say, with the economic progress, the country will lose its old way of living, traditional values and uniqueness as a nation. But it should also be considered that change is the fundamental basis of development and if a nation worries too much about the old ways of living, it would fail to ensure progress at a steady pace.
	In conclusion, there is no doubt that economic progress should be an important goal for a government but there are still many aspects that are equally important.
Essay 213:
	The progress of a nation is often measured by economic growth, therefore many governments focus more on their economic progress rather than other aspects. However, some people, including me, have a contrasting view as they believe that political stability, security, social condition and education are equally important for the advancement of a nation.
	On the one hand, many governments pay more attention to economic development than other aspects of life as they believe that economic growth plays an important role in the development of a nation. When a country's economy develops, it ensures business ventures, new job opportunities and the government can collect more funds through taxes. This fund could be used for the improvement of other sectors such as education, public infrastructures and military services.  
	On the other hand, even though economic growth plays an essential part, governments must ensure a better living standard and a green environment. The economic condition of a country will not grow without the support of a secure social condition, better political condition and advanced educational system. Investors will not place their investment in countries that have an insecure political condition such as Afganistan or Iraq. And then, without the existence of educated and skilled workers, it will be difficult for a country to improve their industrial and trade activities. Therefore, the growth of the economic sectors should be aligned with other important sectors.
	In conclusion, it is undeniable that economic growth plays an important role in the development of a nation. However, I personally believe that besides economic progress, better education, social welfare, security and political stability are equally important for the sustainable development of a nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2444-companies-should-allocate-percentage-of-these-positions-to-women",
Essay 214:
	In recent years, the role of women in society as well as in job sectors has changed to a great extent. However, it is noteworthy that higher positions in firms are still occupied by men, although women account for half of the workforce in many developed countries. While some people claim that women should be promoted more to hold these positions, I disagree with this idea as I believe that higher positions should be served by deserving people and should not be allocated based on gender.
	First, recruiting for higher positions in a company should never be based on gender, but qualifications, skills and aptitudes. This is because choosing people who cannot adapt to the working conditions will make companies confront many difficulties - even this can affect the profit, productivity and the public image. For instance, in my brother’s workplace, two women were recruited in two higher positions only because they were relatives of the owner. Within a few months, the management had to replace both of them with more competent employees. Therefore, a company should always choose the best people to serve their important positions. If a female candidate seems more promising or if an existing female employee has excellent capabilities, there should not be any problem in recruiting or promoting a woman in a higher position.
	Again, if percentage or number is the most crucial factor, I believe children should also be promoted to higher positions in a company in a developing country as their percentage in factories and industries in those countries is also high. This exemplifies why qualifications should get priority over other aspects when it comes to hiring people for higher management positions in a company.
	In conclusion, I strongly believe that employees should be recruited according to their expertise, eligibilities and talent. It is therefore recommended that women who want to play important roles in an organisation should gain those qualifications and skills. They should not be favoured only because of their gender.
Essay 215:
	Women's contribution to building a nation is equally important to that of men, and given the chance, women can be equally adept to take responsibilities in higher management positions in a company. Gender equality is no longer a concept, but a proven way to accelerate progress. I, therefore, strongly believe that a portion of higher positions in companies and organisations should be reserved for females.
	To begin with, half of the world population is women and their empowerment determines the overall progress of nations and the global economy. If these women are kept away from decision-making positions, true empowerment of nations would become impossible. To cite an example, when half of the decision-makers in a large company are females, they can bring diverse perspectives and innovation to the company. Some of the Asian countries including Bangladesh and India have incorporated reserved seats in parliaments for women, and these female leaders have done a great deal to encourage women to actively contribute to the country's politics and business sectors.
	Furthermore, women in higher positions, in the police force, for example, can better understand the crimes and injustice against women and can propose better solutions to these issues. Similarly, almost every large company has a great portion of female consumers and having some female key employees would only ensure more favourable product research, planning and productions that would better serve females and ensure more loyal female customers.
	To conclude, allocating a certain portion of higher positions for women is not a courtesy to the women. Rather it ensures a balanced working environment, innovation, happy female customers and women empowerment which are the key ingredients to sustainable progress and better business development.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2439-reducing-the-working-week-to-35-hours",
Essay 216:
	To outline the advantages, 35 working hours per week will allow employees to allocate more time for themselves and spend quality time with family and friends. Besides, they will be inspired to take part in different social and sports activities, and that will surely improve their health conditions. Moreover, the reduced working hours means more time for resting and taking vacations, and proper rest and vacations refresh our minds. Undeniably, this has a relationship with the productivity of employees in their offices. Finally, many stress-related issues are caused by overwork, and if employees work 7 hours a day, they are less likely to suffer from fatigue and stress.
	On the other hand, decreased working hours would reduce the output of employees, especially in industries and that would hike the price of different commodities. Life would become even more costly due to the increasing price. Companies, on the other hand, will have to hire more employees to maintain their productivity and thus their operational costs would increase.
	To conclude, a balanced working hour is already in place, which is 8 hours per day. Employees should work effectively during office hours and leave the office in due time. Companies should not put extra pressure and engage staff for more than 8 hours a day while the government should make sure that private companies are not violating the laws regarding the weekly working hours.
Essay 217:
	Different social and personal problems due to overwork are arguably the most concerning dilemmas in the modern world, both for developing and industrialised countries. It is suggested by many to have a 35-hours workweek schedule, as they believe it would help diminish many overwork-related issues. This essay will give an in-depth analysis of both advantages and disadvantages of the proposed working hours.
	It seems reasonable that a shorter working week can boost the demand for new employment while also provide a healthier working condition. As workers are expected to work five hours less per week, the companies have to consider additional recruitment to keep up with the former productivity, thus help in lowering the unemployment quota. Moreover, studies have highlighted the importance of granting employees a greater amount of time for resting. Not only it will lead to better performance, but also improve employee satisfaction, from which the organisations can benefit a lot.
	On the other hand, there are bound to be pitfalls once the suggestion gets passed. Economically speaking, cutting working hours can severely hurt companies’ competitiveness in the market, since they are no longer as effective. The situation may get even worse if all firms suffer from the same problem. Prices are then likely to be raised so that the expenses can be covered. Ironically, the employees, who are also customers, turn out again to be the victims of the solution suggested.
	To conclude, limiting the working week to 35 hours might sound promising but there are several potential issues, which must be thoroughly addressed before the proposal could be implemented in the real world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2438-not-enough-of-the-waste-from-homes-is-recycled",
Essay 218:
	Waste recycling and people’s participation in it is a moot issue, and a lot of arguments could be observed among people as well as in the media regarding this. Whether people should spontaneously take part in the recycling process or the government should make it a legal obligation needs a thorough discussion. I personally believe that government should impose laws and severely fine the violators to ensure proper waste recycling.
	To commence with, waste recycling is done by the state and citizens are expected to properly divide the recyclable and non-recyclable wastages and pack them accordingly while dumping them in recycle bins. They are expected to cooperate greatly in the recycling process. However, it is a strange fact that many people do not participate in it spontaneously either from their negligence or from their lack of time to do so.
	Moreover, it is a harsh truth that many people abide by rules only from the concern of punishment or fine, not from their conscience. For instance, when the penalty for traffic rule violation went up last year, people started following them in my city. Similarly, if laws are introduced and the authority starts penalising, more people would recycle more of their wastages.
	Finally, waste recycling is a very handy process to save our environment and we already have many rules to protect our environment. While deforesting is a severe crime in my country, there is no visible law for not recycling waste. This is why people are very careless about their waste management in our country. This is why proper laws are required.
	In conclusion, most of the citizens in our country already know about the importance of saving the environment and how individual efforts of recycling can improve environmental conditions. Since many of them still do not participate in waste recycling, there is no alternative than to impose laws to have this done.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2437-reason-for-learning-a-foreign-language",
Essay 219:
	Learning a foreign language has many advantages including augmenting knowledge about diverse cultures, having better job prospects, fostering better cognitive development, developing effective communication skills and so on. While some people believe that the only reason we should learn a foreign language is to visit or work in a foreign country, many others opine that the benefits of learning a different language are not limited to the job and travel prospects only.  This essay delves into both points of view. My opinion is that learning a foreign language goes beyond travel, migration or job prospects.
	On the one hand, it is quite natural that people want to learn a foreign language only to be able to communicate with people who speak this language. Thus a large number of people learn foreign languages like English, French, German, Spanish, Russian and Arabic to travel, migrate or find jobs in countries where people use these languages. From this regard, it seems quite logical that visiting a country or working there is the main reason people learn a second language. In my country, for example, most people learn English and Spanish while almost none learn Russian. Migration and job prospects are the reason that has established this trend, I believe.
	On the contrary, research indicates that cognitive development happens faster among children who learn a second language than those who do not. Furthermore, learning a second language is mandatory in an academic syllabus and this helps us understand diverse cultural and traditional aspects. People who know more languages are capable of reading more books, and understanding the lifestyle of different nationalities. Again, learning a foreign language helps us make new friends. Thus it is evident that learning a foreign language has many other benefits as well.
	In conclusion, there is no denying the fact that people primarily learn a foreign language to travel to or work in a developed country. But it is quite evident that there are far many advantages of learning a foreign language than to work or migrate to a country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2436-governments-should-spend-money-on-railways-rather-than-roads",
Essay 220:
	Every government works hard so that citizens can commute safely and quickly while businesses get a solid transportation system for trade facilities. Thus when the question arises whether a government should focus on improving its railways or roads, people have divided opinions. I personally agree that the government should spend more money on the railway system.
	Fast of all, railways offer a safer commuting experience both for the citizens and traders. The numbers of road accidents and highway casualties in many countries, for example, are far higher than that of railway accidents. Thus investing in a safer mode of transportation is a much more prudent idea. Moreover, rails cause comparatively less environmental pollutions while road vehicles are the main reason for increasing pollution and around the world.
	Second, rails can carry hundreds of people and several hundred tonnes of goods at a time while road transports not built for that. Some shuttle trains are many times faster than that those of private cars and public buses. Thus improved railways would save peoples’ valuable time every day. Thirdly, rail lines are usually away from the main cities and that is why some busy cities have no other alternatives than to improve their rail transportation system. Express trains can reduce the traffic congestion in metro areas, and more investment to improve the railway is the only possible solution in many cities where population density is high.
	Finally, the population of the world is increasing rapidly, and that is why investing more money in a faster and reliable transportation system is more logical than investing in the older transportation system. Railways will be the future in the transportation sector, and investment in it is the better choice for any government.
	In conclusion, I believe that a government, either in a developed or a developing country, should invest to build a safer, faster and more reliable transportation system, and the railway, for this reason, should get an obvious priority.
Essay 221:
	Some people believe that a government should invest more in the rail system and build more railroads rather than diverting funds to improving highways and road transportation systems. To a certain point, I would agree with the statement, but I also believe that the decision of building railways or roads should be made based on the natural conditions of the area and the preference of citizens.
	On the one hand, it is understandable if some people opine that a government should expand more railroads rather than roads and streets. Firstly, it is obvious that when a country has extensive rail networks, it will positively affect the logistic cost. The selling price of many goods would be cheaper since a single locomotive could carry tonnes of crops, goods or liquor. Secondly, by building integrated subway stations in city areas, traffic congestion could be avoided. For example, as Singapore has a very good train network, called MRT, most of the people rarely drive on their vehicles. As a result, Singapore is free from traffic congestion and air pollution.
	On the other hand, it is also important for a government to do some feasibility studies about the geological conditions of an area before planning to improve railroads. It is a fact that some areas might not be suitable for railways, as those areas might have swamps or rocky mountains, for example. If the government finalise building railway networks, the investment cost might be unreasonably high. For instance, Borneo in Indonesia is one of the largest islands in the world, but most of the areas are swamps. So it is not suitable for railroads but good for an integrated water and road transportation system. Finally, the preference of citizens should also be considered before investing in construction on railroads or highways.
	In conclusion, a government should invest in building railroads where applicable, but should also analyse thoroughly before spending money solely on railways. The authority needs to ensure that their areas are suitable for rail networks and people prefer that transportation system.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2434-schools-is-to-turn-children-into-good-citizens",
Essay 222:
	Schools are considered to be the lighthouse of a nation, and if education is the backbone of a nation, schools are the place to build it. However, the main objective of academies is a never-ending debate. I agree that a school's main purpose should be to turn students into honest and good citizens and making them ready to work for society instead of turning them into selfish money-making machines by helping them individually just to be ready to get a job.
	First, the main purpose of education is to build up an enlightened nation where morality, honesty and integrity would be the key characteristics. They would keep aside their personal ambitions, and work together for the betterment of the country. Since a school is a place where pupils' education is taken care of, its chief objective should be to focus on nurturing morality and good human characteristics among the students while also preparing them for their careers that would benefit society. To exemplify, if talented and experienced doctors treat patients only for the money, healthcare for all would be a distant dream. So, to build a nation where people will help each other instead of turning into money-making machines, we should focus on our education system, especially what we teach our children.
	Second, states spend a lot of money to keep the schools and their education system running. A major portion of this spending comes from the tax money. From this regard, if schools plan to adopt an education system where teachers’ sole purpose would be to teach children how to be personally benefitted from jobs or businesses, the whole education system would collapse. We have to be very careful while educating our children. What we teach them in their early stages would shape them, and if the schools fail to teach them to become ideal citizens, it would be a great concern in the future. Moreover, personal benefits, good grades and a better career should not be the main reasons children attend schools. They should attend schools to become enlightened members of society.
	In conclusion, making ideal citizens and dedicated workers should be the true objective of our schools. The greater good of society, the bright and prosperous future of a nation, and the personal achievements of individuals are connected with the way we teach our children in schools and that is why our education should focus on morality and quality.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2432-sport-is-popular-draw-on-television-today",
Essay 223:
	Technology has given people wings to fly, but along with that, it has made them lethargic. One such technological advancement is television. With different kinds of content being lined up on television, sport is one such programme which is watched and enjoyed by all groups of people, and the ongoing craze of different sports on television has inspired the young generation to a great extent. Now the question arises if this trend is supposed to be blamed for the poor health of the young generation or not. This essay delves into this issue.
	The more they watch their favourite sports on TV, the more they become addicted to watching it, whilst the evolution of sports on television was not meant to do that. The motive to promote sports on televisions was to inform people of sports activities and to instil a feeling of vigour and enthusiasm in people, particularly among young people, so that they take part in different sports. However, these days, the young generation takes watching sports on television as a leisure activity. Instead of inspiring, it has rather instilled a feeling of apathy about taking part in outdoor sports among youth by occupying their free time.
	Moreover, the young one's, these days, just love to have a gala time watching sports. They no more feel the need to go out and partake in physical activities which in turn has affected their health. According to some recent statistics, more than 80% of youths watch major football tournaments on TV, a many-fold rise than the last decade, but the actual participants in football in real life have considerably decreased than our past generation.
	In my view, there is no harm in watching sports on television sometimes. But if it exceeds the desired time limit then the alarm has to be raised. Along with watching sports, they should take part in these sports in the fields and outdoors.
Essay 224:
	Sport has truly become one of the most entertaining and popular television shows these days. A group of people believe that these sport shows have negative effects on young people, as they prefer to watch those games on television rather than exercising or taking part in them in their free time. To a certain point, I would agree with the statement, but I also believe that its effects depend on the personality of each individual.
	It is a fact that the number of sports channels has increased rapidly in recent years. Cable channels such as ESPN, Ten Sports, Star Sports, Fox Sports and so on broadcast attractive sports and live competitions all day long. As a consequence, many young people watch television for several hours just to watch these games. The condition gets worst as they are also consuming unhealthy food such as popcorn, candies and soda when they watch these shows. Therefore, a lot of people believe that these channels have been the main cause of bad health conditions of young generation nowadays.
	Having said that, these sports programmes should not be primarily blamed for youngsters' poor health conditions as there are other factors which affect the health of young people. Firstly, many parents do not teach their children about a healthy lifestyle. They let their children watch television, play video games and chat on mobile phones for many hours a day and do not take them outdoors. The popularity of different junk foods and soda is the reason many young people's health condition is deteriorating.
	In conclusion, to a certain extent, I would agree that sports programmes on TV have some negative effects on the health condition of young people, but, I also believe that there are other equally and more important factors which can also lead to poor health situation among youngsters.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2431-way-to-improve-the-safety-on-our-own-road",
Essay 225:
	Recently, a great number of accidents on the road have caused by the careless drivers. Some people think that giving stricter punishment is the answer to tackling the driving offender problems, however, I disagree that it is the only way.
	First and foremost, even the best rules have been established and imposed it would be useless if drivers have no self-conscious in following the driving law. For example, there are harsh punishments when we are driving while drinking, but in the reality considerable road accidents caused by drunk driver still exist. Thus, the main focus of this issue is all about the awareness as a driver, not just concerning on the punishment.
	In addition, a government could help to improve the safety on the road by broadcasting the background knowledge of how important it is to drive prudently. It could increase drivers' conscious about the danger that could happen only because breaking simple policy, such as the driver might take someone's life with passing the traffic light. Then, the socialisation program is probably given in the process of making their driving license card to ensure every driver would receive the information.
	Furthermore, the private companies, such as IT companies and transport mode companies, could collaborate with the government to create a "Smart Transportation Mode". The new software will be attached in a car or a bike which is able to detect the speed limit of the vehicle and the level of the alcohol in driver's body and stops when it reaches a certain limit. The other possibility is that the software will turn off the car's or bike's machine if it is too close to other kinds of transportation modes or other things. Hence, one of the road accidents like a crash a can be prevented.
	In conclusion, giving the tighten punishment is a brilliant idea, however, I believe there are still other excellent thoughts to boost the safety on the road.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2422-wild-animals-should-be-protected",
Essay 226:
	Every year a number of wild animals are being extinct and the increasing number of endangered species worldwide is an alarming issue for us. Some people are in the opinion that we should try to save all the wild animals while others believe that we should emphasise on saving some selective wild animals.
	First of all, wild animals are part of our eco-system and they have as much share as we have on this Earth. Due to exploit and overuse of natural resources by humans, many such wild animals are getting wiped out. Since we, human, are the main reasons their existence are in danger, it is our obligation to protect them. While planning and executing our steps to save wild animals, we should never select some wild animals while letting others die. In fact, it is quite unclear what would be the determining factors for our biassed selection? Many people, in this case, would argue that we should focus on saving wild animals which are fewer in numbers and have greater chances of extinction like Royal Bengal Tigers and Pandas. However, I disagree. If we take proper steps to save wild animals, that would include any wild animal found around us. For instance, if we can ensure a natural inhabitation of all wild animals and prohibit any actions that might threaten them, would actually save all the wild animals.
	When saving some selective wild animals, many argue that geological garden could a safe place for them. In fact, the reality is quite contrary. We should not put wild animals in cages and should let them freely live in their natural living place. International organisations like UN, UNESCO, WWF, Wildlife Alliance etc. sometimes work on saving endangered animals but that does not restrict their activities for saving those wild animals only. They have broader plans and several initiatives for saving all the wildlife animals.
	Finally, our won activities like logging trees, increasing use of cars, expanding cities, luxury, rampant hunting of animals etc. are the main threats to every wild animal in the world and the time has come for us to step forward and stop such activities. Saving every wild animal is a dire need not only to maintain the natural balance but also for our own well-being.
	In conclusion, we should save every wild animal that is still present in the world. Selecting some wild animals for saving is an idea we should discard as it would bring more devastating effects than positive ones.
Essay 227:
	People have different opinions about saving and protecting wild animals. A group of people believe that all wild animals should be protected while others think that we should only preserve several ones. The following paragraphs will discuss both views in detail, but I personally believe that all wild animals should be conserved.
	For a number of reasons, some people believe that not all wild animals should be preserved. Firstly, they believe that the overpopulation of wild animals could become a threat for our existence. For example, should the population of Zebra and Wildebeest in Africa is protected, then the existence of these animals might become overpopulated, and as a result, they might explore the farming areas in Africa. Secondly, conserving wild animals requires a large amount of money. They believe that these funds should be allocated for humanity issues, as many third world countries are still struggling against starvation and deathly diseases.
	However, others think that all wild animals must be protected. The main reason behind this view is that all of the wild animals plays an important role in the ecosystem. Should there be one of these animals extinct, then the ecosystem would be unbalanced and it might have a catastrophic effect on the environment. Another reason is that the existence of these wild animal is beneficial for human beings. Scientists have found out that some wild animals could be used as a medical treatment, such as the blood of a snake which can be used to heal skin diseases. There is another reason that forms the opinion that all wild animals are important and should be equally protected. The reason explains that if we protect some selected wild animals, others might get extinct and then we will damage the biodiversity of the world.     
	In conclusion, a number of people believe that we should protect all wild animals, while others think that we should only preserve some of them. Both groups have their own opinions, but I strongly believe that we should conserve all wild animals.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2417-education-system-is-the-only-critical-factor-to-development",
Essay 228:
	Without any doubt, education is the key to development for a nation and only a well-educated nation could thrive for excellence and ultimate development. However, when the discussion topic is whether education system is the only critical issue for the development of a country, I quite disagree with this view. I personally believe that citizens’ skill development, increasing export, international relationship, better life standard, better utilisation of internal resources, technological development are other important and critical factors which must be combined with the educational system of a country for its  true and sustainable development.
	First of all, education is considered to be the backbone of a nation and it is quite obvious that education system of a country has an immense role in the overall development of a country. Most of the developed countries have well-educated citizens and exemplary education system – which represents the importance of education system for the development of a county. However, there are countries like Sri Lanka with an educated nation and better education facilities and still suffering from poverty and struggling to become a developed nation. This indicates that education system could never be the only consideration for development.
	Second, only better GDP and revenue reserve cannot be the true indicators of the development. Overall life standard, healthcare facility, safety, freedom of speech and thoughts, sustainable economic growth and a healthy environment are also important for a country to become a developed one. For instance, many middle-eastern countries have a huge reserve of foreign currency and source of national income and yet their citizens suffer from war, chaos and they have little freedom of thoughts. Such a nation might have a very strong economy and superior education system, but peace is absent there. Thus I do not recognise them as developed countries.
	Japan, does not have a strong educational system comparing with many other European countries and yet they are one of the richest and most developed countries in the world. They have properly utilised their possibility, national resources and have maintained a better global trade relationship. This country is a prime example of how skilled and hard working citizens can help improve their nation.
	Finally, many Asian countries have gained prominent economic growth in the last few years by adopting latest technology and they are soon going to be developed countries. They, no doubt, have improved their educational system over the period but they have not relied on this single factor. Increasing export, international relationship, better leadership and democratic government are some other crucial factor for many other countries to be promoted as a developed country.
	In conclusion, I believe that a better education system, along with skilled population, better leadership, international trade and relationship, better lifestyle, freedom of speech, technological development, enhanced export and utilisation of internal resources can make sure the development of a nation, not alone.
Essay 229:
	Nowadays, many people give much more focus on how to create the better education system in order to ensure the country's development. A majority of people believe that the education system is the only essential method for that, however, I do disagree with that statement.
	First and foremost, even the best education system could be useless if many people still live in the poor condition. They have to work hard to continue their life consequently they prefer avoiding the education because time spent in schools could be used to earn money. Subsequently, the education system will not increase significantly like the prediction of the people. If a country fails to ensure enough job opportunities, an educated future generation will make much more problems than predicted since neither will they get involved in works like irrigation nor will be able to manage a suitable job.
	Furthermore, development of a country would probably be achieved slightly by tackling the urgent factors like famine and health care issues. Those factors are more crucial than the education system. The excellent intelligence which we have gotten through education will be of no importance if we are in unhealthy.  Nutrition, sports facilities and vocational training are thus more important in this scenario.
	Developed countries like the USA, the UK, Australia, Canada, and Japan have more educated citizens than that of underdeveloped countries. However, they can nowadays ensure proper education system only because they had been able to ensure basic human needs properly first. Countries like Sri Lanka and many others have higher education rate than many developed countries and yet they failed to become affluent nations.  Thus, before people go too far to focus on th education system, they should have covered all of the fundamentals first.
	In conclusion, education system, no doubt, is a very important factor for the overall development of a nation but this is not the only factor for the development. Many other important aspects must be considered and implemented for the real development in a county.
Essay 230:
	Many people believe that education is the most important factor for a country's development. I personally agree that education is one of the most important components for the growth of any country, but there are other crucial factors that should be considered by the government and the people. The following paragraphs will explain in details about both views and will show my position on this issue.
	On the one hand, it is true that education plays an important role in the progress of a nation. As more and more people become educated, common society issues will soon be decreasing. For example, in the past, the percentage of illiterate people in China was around 50%. Consequently, many of the people were living in poverty as most of their occupation were low skill workers with low incomes. But then the government realised these inconvenient conditions and tried to develop the education system. Some of the programs were giving free educations for the children and providing scholarships for scientists and engineers. As a result, the country has experienced a significant increase in the economic sectors, and now China plays a significant role in the world economy.  
	On the other hand, there are other factors that should be improved and one of them would be health. Countries that have a good healthcare system will have healthier residents which affect the productivity of the labours. Another crucial factor would be technology as it plays a significant role in the development of a country in this modern era. For example, agricultural countries that use technology for their farming activities will be more productive than the old fashioned ones. As they use tools such as tractors and bulldozers, they will be faster in planting and cultivating their lands compared to the traditional ones.  
	In conclusion, I disagree if education is the only factor that would develop a nation. I do believe that education plays an important role in the development of a country, but there are other factors that should be considered by the government as well, such as health and technology.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2416-people-do-not-know-their-neighbors-and-the-sense-of-community-is-lost",
Essay 231:
	The significant rises of the population, fast paced life, crime rate and dependency on technology in the urban areas make more people become unacquainted and unfriendly to their neighbours. However, there are measures that can be taken to alleviate this issue.
	In today’s technology dependent era, people are mostly busy with their own work. Major streets in the cities are filled with busy people walking fast to reach their office or business place. They are even busy talking to their office colleagues and family members over the phone. After they return home late evening, they watch television, use computer and the Internet or spend time with family members. They scarcely have any time to socialise with neighbours. In some scenarios, people do not even know who live next door in city areas. These are the everyday scenarios in the cities where social interactions could be rarely seen as individuals have no time to socialise and much focused on their own work or personal interests.
	Again, the rampant acceleration of crimes in the urban community makes individual become unnecessarily cautious and suspicious about other people, especially with the people they meet for the very first time. Even trusting their own neighbourhood would be tough for them as they are in constant fear of being harmed. As a result inhabitants of cities tend to become isolated as they are afraid to mingle because of undeveloped acquaintance. Unlike rural areas, where comparatively fewer people live together, city areas are highly populated and it is not unlikely that several thousands of people live in a block. Maintaining social relationship with all of them is this thus quite impossible.     
	On the other hand, considering possible measures to improve a sense of community in the neighbourhood community officials must organise programmes regularly to encourage camaraderie. Secondly, building more parks, social gathering places, community centres and children’s playground in the community could be a good measure to let people socialise and know each other. This is also helpful for meeting friends, bonding with family and neighbours. As a result, people living in the community would develop a sense of friendship. Positive news and events among community members should be highlighted in media to eradicate the fear people have about unknown people. Finally, organising different community groups to help people find others with same interest and to share common passions is a very effective measure to help people enhance their neighbouring bonds and relationship in my opinion.
	To sum it up, city life and overwhelming population should not be hindrances to our sense of community and our relationship with our neighbours. It would be nicer for the community to develop a friendly environment to create a better place to live in with all the neighbours.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2415-pupils-with-different-abilities-should-be-educated-together",
Essay 232:
	People have different views about grouping students in different classes- some prefer this grouping based on students’ academic skill while others prefer mixing students in a group. Although there are some good reasons to think that students with same performance level and ability in a group have more advantages, in my opinion, a mixed-ability education system should be carried out in schools.
	For several reasons it can be argued that student segregation by grades and same ability should be allowed in schools and should be grouped together. Firstly, high performing groups can be taught at a right speed by teachers. Who then would be able to plan their lecture by looking at students capability of how quickly they can absorb knowledge and new lessons. This will allow teachers to cover the course at a faster pace. Secondly, high-achievers will be more motivated if they are acknowledged as the most intelligent, talented and gifted peers. This sense of being superior will also help them to work hard and eventually become a successful, prosperous and competitive member of the future workforce. If a classroom has students of similar abilities and learning capability, they find it more interesting to perform and excel in their studies. The teachers do not need to put any special emphasis to teach them which is quite helpful for a good learning environment.
	However, I believe in the current system of mix education in schools, where students with different academic capabilities are being taught in the same class. Students in this system will be more confident and more competitive if they are not subject to grading based segregation. Less capable students would have more opportunities to interact with brilliant students if both are being taught in the same group. So it will not only encourage cooperation but also competition with their class-fellows. Furthermore, segregating less capable pupils in mid-range or lower level groups would cause resentment in them with lower self-esteem. This is because children do not really want to be seen as less intelligent or less privileged. Also, they are prone to be violent or get involved in a gang culture just to make themselves prominent in society or to satisfy their confidence. Some low-achievers might end up attaining worse grades than before since a sense of competition is less likely to be found in the class of less capable pupil. Also, comparatively less intelligent students will not get the confidence of competing in the job markets in future, if they are kept in low-quality classes.
	In conclusion, grouping pupils by their achievement level have few positive effects on high performing students but still this is a harmful way to education a nation. I would rather argue that mixed-ability oriented classes should be encouraged in schools as it will benefit all students.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2414-letter-writing-could-be-lost-in-the-future",
Essay 233:
	Latest technological inventions like mobile phones and computers have made communication much more convenient, easier and less expensive. Some people consider it as the revolution in the communication system, while some others opine that this advancement has reduced our bonding and made our relationship less personal. There is no double that with the widespread usage of cell phones, pagers, text messages, social networking websites and Internet calling, letter writing has already become less popular but I do not agree that this it will ever disappear.
	To begin with, letter writing is a traditional way of communication among people from different parts of the world. Even until now with the dominance of technology like email, letter writing has its importance and supremacy in authoritative, official and personal communication. Letter writing is still the best way to congratulate someone, write to a government office or to write to a dear friend.
	Second, it is a formal writing and some business companies ask their applicants to write an application letter to measure their capability in communicating by means of writing. Secondly, letter writing can be a source of documentation that can be utilised as strong evidence in the court. Email fraud is common these days and someone with advance knowledge can send an email from any email address he wants. This makes an email less authoritative as strong evidence.     
	In addition, people applying for fiancée visa can send love letters to the embassy as proof of the relationship to a foreign individual as additional documentation purposes. Thirdly, individual living in a remote area of a countryside still need to write letters since the Internet is yet to be available there. The number of such areas is quite large and they rely on letter writing for communication. Thus, people prefer to use letter writing as a form of sending important messages- be it to love one’s or business transaction purposes. The personal touch, affection and sincerity a hand written letter can convey could not be found in an email or text message.
	Lastly, letter writing is the only way to improve someone’s writing skills. Computerised grammar and spell checking facilities are often the reason many modern-era students do not have excellent writing and grammatical command. On the other hand habit of letter writing enhance someone ability to write better. It will also help them become more creative and imaginative in creating a very excellent output of writing.
	In my point of view, letter writing will not be abolishing in future because it possesses a significant importance in communication, especially in measuring the ability of individual’s writing, creativity and appropriate and clever way of writing. Letter writing is entirely beneficial in honing to become an effective communicator. The importance of letter writing in offices, courtrooms, among friends and lovers will always help it to survive.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2410-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1101-nowadays-more-and-more-people-are-having-consumer-goods",
Essay 234:
	With the development of new technologies, people’s life is now more comfortable than it was in the past. In these days it is almost unimaginable that one modern household functions without refrigerators, washing machines, microwave oven, and other appliances. A rapid development of these technologies brings with itself a lot of advantages, but negatively effects these useful technological devices have on humans and environment could not be ignored.
	With today’s available consumer goods, people do not have much trouble to keep their foods or clothes in the condition that will be useful for them in every occasion. Time spent in preparation of food, washing or ironing of clothes, is far less these days than it used to be in the past, and thanks to new technologies. Just hundred years ago it was unimaginable that you could keep your meats and other food items for months, to prepare some meals in just a couple of minutes or to wash a large number of clothes in just 30 minutes. That is the biggest advantage of these consumer goods, Modern people spend far less time in doing house chores than they used to. In this way, people can save time, and time is the most valuable aspect in the modern society.
	But, on the other hand, use of appliances in such huge quantity brings with itself higher energy consumptions that lead to a higher environmental pollution all around the world. Since most of our energy is produced from the fossil fuels and coals, further increasing of energy consumption will lead to greater consumption of these non-renewable resources of energy which harm our environment. Even today the Earth is on the highest level of pollution in its history. So it is understandable why people warn on use and overuse of consumer goods.    
	At the end, modern appliances are invented to make people’s life easier and they are successful in that, but the question is- 'what cost it will bound us to pay?' I am sure that in the future these consumer goods will be more energy efficient with lesser energy consumptions for their work, and that will still make the life of people easier and more convenient like they do today.
Essay 235:
	It is a fact that more families these days have electronic households such freezers, vacuum cleaner, hair dryer, room heater, water heater and laundry machines than ever before. This trend has some positive and negative aspects but I personally believe that it has more disadvantages than advantages and this is due to the environmental damage they cause.
	It is noticed that the number of families that have consumer goods at their home has increased rapidly in the past few years. The main reason behind this trend is because of people’s busy lifestyle. They have less time to do their household activities and therefore they are relying on their electronic devices. For example, city people who are busy with their works are relying on their microwave oven and cooker for preparing their meals. The oven could be utilised for preparing instant food which would save some time for them. Therefore, some people believe that the existence of electronic household devices brings a lot of benefits for them.
	On the other hand, another group of people believe that it is not a good trend because they think that these devices could have some negative effects on the human body. For instance, devices such as microwave ovens or refrigerators produce radiation that could result a serious threat to the human body. In such cases, the usage of microwave oven has triggered serious diseases such as tumour and cancer. Another example would be about the usage of CFC as it is used in electronic products such as air conditioner and freezer. Many people do not realise that the usage of CFC has a fatal effect on the environment, as it triggers global warming. No doubt the modern electronic devices that we use daily have made our life easier and brought many luxuries in our life but the damages those devices cause is a big threat in our existence.    
	In conclusion, it is true that the number of people who own electronic household devices has grown significantly in the past few years. In spite of all the benefits, I personally believe that it has more drawbacks for our life, as these electronic products could have some serious effects on our body and the environment as well.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2408-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1100-there-is-a-shortage-of-housing-due-to-a-growing-population",
Essay 236:
	With around eight billion population in the world, many cities have little spaces to accommodate the growing number of population and their housing. Thousands of people are moving to the urban areas each day for better jobs, modern facilities, education and healthcare services only to increase the woes the cities already have. To solve the housing and other pressing issues due to the booming of the population, many people opine that constructions of new cities near rural areas is the best solution while others have a different view on this. The second group supports regeneration of cities rather than building new towns close to country sides. Establishing new cities in the vicinity of the countrysides has its advantages and drawbacks.
	First of all, building new cities near the countrysides would require a huge budget. Since many underdeveloped and developed countries already have a scarcity of budgets even to support the basic needs of citizens, taking such initiatives would uplift their debts only. Besides, constructing new cities close to country sides would require destroying farming lands and natural geography which will have severe consequences including deforestation and degradation of lands. Further, such cities would be far away from the main cities and if the government fails to provide every facility that the already established cities have, people would not stay there and this possess a chance of the wastage of money in the long run. Finally, many cities already have severe congestion problem and building such new cities near rural areas would make the situation worse as people’s necessity for commuting to these new cities would increase.
	On the other hand, accurate planning and proper execution of establishing new cities near rural areas rather than regenerating existing cities have many merits. First of all, this would be an excellent way to solve the housing problems many cities have. If the government can ensure proper facilities in the newly constructed cities, the pressure on current cities would decrease tremendously. This would result in less traffic congestion, decentralisation, less pollution and better life standard in both types of cities. Newly built cities would open many new job facilities and that would help the adjacent rural areas to develop as well. No doubt the constructions would require a huge budget, but the government will have an excellent opportunity to control many business sectors there to earn a steady revenue. Finally, these new cities would have modern buildings and new constructions which would fight better against the natural calamities like the earthquake.
	In conclusion, building new cities near rural areas is a plan that can bring many amenities both for the citizens and the government in a country. It can be an excellent way for solving housing and pollution problems in existing cities though some negative consequences of this plan should be taken into consideration.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2407-the-government-is-responsible-for-providing-a-high-level-of-healthcare",
Essay 237:
	Quality health care is a basic need for all citizens in a country regardless of their economic or social statuses and the government should take every effort possible to ensure superior health care facilities for all of its citizens. I quite agree with the notion that government is responsible for ensuring high-level health care service of all its citizens, no matter what their economic levels are.
	First of all, every government has a responsibility to ensure some basic needs to its citizens and health care is one of the most important aspects that a government should take care. Only a corrupted and inefficient government would discriminate among its rich and poor citizens and thus would build a country where rich will enjoy all the facilities while poor people would be deprived in every step.
	Second, in this modern era, most of the countries, specifically in democratic countries, have a government selection model where people decide who would rule the country. The participating parties give their agenda and the list of developments they would implement for the progress of the country. In most of the cases high-level health care facility gets special emphasise in their pre-election agenda and if the government fails to ensure this facility, it is kind of a violation of their promise to the whole nation.
	It is not unlikely that the government cannot offer better healthcare facilities in public hospitals while the rich people get far better treatments and diagnosis from the private healthcare facilities. This is a scenario which is quite unexpected and should not be the case in an ideal legislative system. All the citizens in a country are equal to the law and constitution and the facilities they are expected to get from the country has no way to be different.
	In conclusion, when people need to spend a lot of money to get quality health care service, then we can easily assume that the government has failed to establish a proper healthcare sector for all the people. In the same way ensuring quality health care facilities to all the citizens of a country is a responsibility no government can deny.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2406-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1098-many-universities-charge-higher-fees-for-foreign-students",
Essay 238:
	Many foreign universities have a dual policy in case of their tuition fees as they charge foreign students higher than the local students. International students often need to pay up to 400 percent more than local students when it comes to higher education in countries like Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the UK. This is also the case in many other countries and a government's obligation to its citizens, enforcing national privilege, tax payment by the local people and restricting the numbers of international students are the main reasons, I believe.
	To begin with, different tuition fees for local and international students gives an impression that ‘you are not equal’ and when we are fighting for the equal rights in every country, the discrimination in the university tuition fee seems like an unfair one. However, the university authority often states that this is a policy that actually ensures better educational environment and fairness in the university campuses. First reason they mention for the different higher education fees is the government’s obligation to its citizens. A government has a natural obligation to education its citizens while educating foreign students is not a direct obligation it has. This also ensures that a government is enforcing the national privilege to its citizens while using the extra money earned from the international students for the improvement of the university education. Third, citizens of a country pay the tax to the government and thus should get the privilege in educating their next generation. Finally, higher university education costs help to control the international students' flow in a country.
	To conclude, providing some opportunities to the local university students is not a bad idea but imposing up to 5x charges to the international students is an unfair policy in my opinion. It's unbelievable how far the university authorities are willing to push international students to get their pay and earn the extra money. In this age of globalisation and equal rights, this is not justified at all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2405-in-the-future-we-will-have-more-and-more-leisure-time",
Essay 239:
	It is safe to say that robots and other powerful and intelligent machines will accompany humans even more in the future, and they will perform duties that historically belonged to us. As a result, we will enjoy more time off. To my mind, this evolution has its pros and cons which I aim to analyze in this essay.
	On the one hand, undeniably people will receive countless benefits when robots take over their usual tasks. With the massive span of free time, people can have many recreational activities that they could not fulfil in the past - like travelling for longer periods of time. This tendency is expected to come along with the development in the service industry that accounts for a high percentage of a country's GDP. Additionally, the workforce is facing contentious problems regarding their mental and physical health, once robots and smart machines come under usage, the workers will no longer be worried about such illness which will reduce the burden on the medical system as well.
	On the other hand, all the drawbacks of it can not be contained easily, it has been proven by science that humans only survive by working, while they are working on their jobs, their body parts are also working, that is what keeps them healthy and physically controlled. But if our tasks are fully done by robots, we will become lethargic and it is extremely negative for our health. People also find happiness in their jobs, which means if they have too much time relaxing, they might end up feeling bored rather than satisfied.
	In conclusion, I believe that robots replacing humans in daily tasks can be positive and negative at the same time. Humans should try to balance the amount of robot-completed work with self-completed work in order to terminate all the shortcomings.
Essay 240:
	We live in a modern world where the domination of machines is notable to an extreme extent. A wide variety of machines is already performing numerous tasks in a perfect manner and at an unbelievable speed. The sole aim of the machines is to offer us comfort, and in the future, we will have more leisure hours as machines will do most of our tasks. But this comfort and free time will come at a cost. This essay outlines both the benefits and problems of this.
	To commence with, machines are meant to ease human activities and in the future, more powerful machines will evolve to do most of our works. Usually, machines are able to perform tasks faster and more accurately than humans, and in the future, they will just do that. So, they will be considered the substitute for humans in many tasks which require arduous labour and physical challenges. At the same time, machines are great multitaskers. For instance, a computer can analyse a massive amount of data in a single second. This is why in the future, machines will be used in production, cleaning, constructions, war, research, and as a result human will have more leisure time.
	On the contrary, there are some detrimental impacts of machines doing most of our tasks, and this will be severe in the future. Certainly, machines will relieve us from repetitive tasks, but they will create some complexities too. When people will leave manual works, the risks of health disorders will increase. They may get affected with several life-tolling diseases for physical inactivity that they used to do before engaging machines for their comforts. Besides, I believe that machines will also cause severe unemployment in many sectors. When machines will be used for large-scale production in factories, many human labours will be eliminated from those jobs. The dependency on machines would be extreme and due to this a single instance of failure or wrong instruction would bring catastrophic results.  
	To conclude, I think it is imperative to deploy machines in only some specific sectors which are beyond the reach of humans. Further, the increased leisure will make life boring for us, and so we should be engaged in the ordinary tasks to enjoy a happy and healthy life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2404-many-people-decide-on-a-career-path-early-in-their-lives",
Essay 241:
	It is true that a large number of people decide to take part in a career and earn money while the intention develops from the early stages of their life. As a result, they are happy with their working life. The view may vary but I completely agree to this.
	Frequently, the dream of taking up a career begins in early part of life. When kids are in schools, they compose essays on ‘Aim in Life’ where they mention about intentions to do in their adulthood. Consequently, they try to get into the track they cherished and most of them win the career and grow well in all terms. So, when they are in desired track, they are satisfied with their working life. The early career gives enough time for thinking or even switching career. People who start working at an early stage have better skills and better control of their professional life.
	In opposite, in my life, I have met with some unhappy people with their career path. They blame misfortune because they wanted to take something else as their career but they are to work on a completely different track which brings the sense of dissatisfaction. For instance, a science graduate who is a friend of mine is now handling banking transactions and an English graduate friend of mine is solving Chemistry problems in a lab! It really turns troublesome for them to bring satisfaction in their career as neither they were ready to deal with the matters nor they had intentions. Most of these people start their career at a later stage and become stuck to something.  
	For a satisfying working life, I believe, people would like to have some specific issues in line with their regular salaries like a cosy working environment, flexible working hours and some extra benefits etc. If they have the facilities, they would be able to focus more on the work which gradually will bring the sense job satisfaction. However, my personal experience taught me that job satisfaction for all employees ios not possible and people's expectation for their jobs vary to a great extent. Nevertheless, my personal opinion is that a contented employee would usually seek for job security, better salary and health working environment.   
	To conclude, it should be kept in mind that we work to live a happy life, and if the working conditions can enhance the living we become happier. Starting a career at an early age has several advantages and happy employees are those who feel secured at their jobs and get a better salary.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2403-compare-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-3-sports-and-pastimes",
Essay 242:
	Everyone wants to maintain a perfect health but it is difficult to obtain this especially in this modern era with a changing lifestyle where people remain busy most of the time. So, the adults engage in different sports and pastimes to stay fit and healthy. But both sports and pastimes have advantages and disadvantages. A brief of the matter is discussed below.  
	First of all, tennis is preferred for its several advantages. It helps to make the body fit and reduces risks for diseases like diabetes, heart disorders etc. Overall mental health is also achieved from this sport. But the most important disadvantage is – tennis is not fit for everyone. Adults over 45 are suggested not to participate in tennis. They might be unable to stroke with the heavy racket or may not move in the court speedily. Besides, this is a costly sport as well.
	Second, walking is a very good form of physical exercise and applicable for people of any age. It helps to reduce weight, burn fats and maintain a healthy lifestyle. But it has some demerits as well. Extensive walking may weaken bone joints. Besides, walking provides a slow benefit. It reduces weight in exchange for longer times. My dad takes a morning walk every day to shed his extra pounds but the results are unremarkable. He has been walking for last three months.
	Finally, people join clubs for passing leisure hours. It offers recreational acts like playing cards, having a group chat etc. Such events develop a sense of comfort to the club-goers. In fact, a club improves mental faculties. But there are no physical benefits as it is derived from physical movements.
	At the end, I believe physical activities should be taken to maintain a healthy living and lifestyle. Only fit people may seek the opportunity to join a club as they need less physical movements. Besides, the remaining people should take sports but after their physical strength and ability.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2364-crime-makes-the-quality-of-life-poorer",
Essay 243:
	We all dream of a peaceful and happy life but often the life is disturbed by the crime and criminals. As a result, the quality of life becomes poorer. It is more prevalent in the developed countries. There are several causes that lead to the problem and those are described in the following paragraphs in brief.
	Lack of childhood parental care is one of the leading issues for crime in the developed countries,- believe many social activists. Kids exercise violence from their high schools and it happens as they lack the right guidance and parental care. Since they are not taken care by parents, they commit different sorts of crime and there are lots of examples in Europe and the USA where the young people have been found guilty in different crime situations – even in murder.
	Secondly, I believe, insecurity and discrimination lead people to break the law. When they cannot get their rights as they were supposed to be, they try taking control of the rights themselves which consequently leads to criminal activities. A kid of a single mother or single father family is more prone to commit crimes and a 1983 study reveals that 60% of child abuse occurred in such conditions by the mother or the father which lead to a behavioural disorder among them and inspire in violating the law.
	So, solving the issue appears really daunting as the problem did not grow overnight. The corrective measures should come first from the family. When a child will know about its social responsibilities and how things work, it will behave in order. The parents, teachers and other relatives have to take responsibility for children to make them better citizens. The government must make sure that the citizens have the access to proper education and other human rights. A combination effort of both people and the government is required to tackle the crime.  
	In summary, a sense of security should be developed among adult people feeling threatened by the society and thus they could be prevented from being outlaws. I think some motivational attempts from government may be helpful in this case in line with the parental care.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2363-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1093-people-are-following-the-latest-fashion-hairstyles-and-so-on",
Essay 244:
	When it comes to fashion and new trends, one of the most significant factors come to our mind is that many individuals excessively follow the most novel fashions ranging from outfits or hairstyles to home design. In this essay, some reasons behind this phenomenon and some serious drawbacks contributed by this habit are going to be discussed.
	People’s notion of beauty could be the main incentive for spending time and money to follow latest fashion and styles. To achieve it they do a lot of things including purchasing branded dress, shoes, ornaments and regularly visiting beauty parlours, spa centres and so on. Being beautiful and attractive is one of the most delightful feelings which human-being are keen to experience. Having updated styles in terms of appearance could widely gift such feeling. Moreover, many people believe that fashion not only could be a factor of beauty but it also helps them to obtain the individuality and uniqueness in their community, at least in visual aspects.
	Many people are heavily influenced by the famous celebrities they like and try to dress like them. Teenagers sometimes follow the latest trends without any particular reason and sometimes to be different from others. Some people are in fashion industries and they try to present their unique identity by following the latest fashion design. Finally, television programmes and advertisement have a great influence on people and these people simply want to be more attractive by following the latest fashion.  
	Despite a diversity of superficial merits of excessive attention to fashion, it seems that its obvious disadvantages strongly draw societies’ care. For one, because of the fact that acquiring the latest fashion facilities entails a great deal of money, people are impelled to spend much of their budget for fulfilling their to look attractive. Furthermore, wasting time for thinking and searching in fashion world could be mentioned as another demerit of such time-consuming activities. By the way of illustration, one of the serious complications for parents is to tackle their children wasting time in shopping centres or surfing on the Internet pursuing the newest clothing etc. Fashion and latest trends are not restricted to hair style or costumes only. Piercing, tattooing, wearing bizarre materials are some other trends that often create social and family issues in many societies.   
	In brief, possessing elegant appearance and/or trying to be matched with the community could be some of the crucial elements of surfing in fashion-world and pursuing fashion excessively could lead to multitude impacts on individuals social and personal life alike in long-term.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2362-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1092-governments-are-encouraging-industries-to-move-to-regional-areas",
Essay 245:
	Industries and businesses are the primary concern in many cities as they make the city more congested and pollute the environment in one hand, while creates job opportunities and contribute to the development of the city on the other hand. Many of the enterprises are operated and promoted in bigger cities only. Encouraging them to move to regional areas is a good idea. I believe that has more benefits than drawbacks.
	There are several advantages why industries should move to the regional areas and the government should take initiatives to do so. The most important aspect is the development of the regional areas. Setting up of the enterprises in the rural area will help to develop the basic infrastructures like transportation facility, electricity and road in the rural areas. In addition, the people of this area will have the golden opportunity of employment and that would enhance the living standard as well. Moreover, the economic activity of the area will increase and that would let the government take further initiatives in order to develop this urban area. The various types of small businesses and industries like hotel, lodge, suppliers will emerge and that will support other businesses and add value to the economy of these areas.
	Regional offices are often helpful to expand businesses and to reduce the manufacturing and operating cost. Thus many big industries would be actually benefited from this. Again the pressure on the big cities would reduce and that would lessen many serious issues like pollutions, traffic jam and waste management.
	Despite this, there are several disadvantages of moving the businesses and industries to regional areas. One of the prominent drawbacks is the exploitation of natural resources. The industry will use the various kind of resources such as forest, water resources which will cause the environmental degradation like pollution, climate change and much more. The gradual increase in the number of population in such urban areas will increase the crime rate. Finally relocating an industry to a different place involves a huge amount of costs and the industries would not want to spend this amount naturally.
	All in all, comparing the good look and bad look, I think that the government must encourage the selected industries and businesses to move to regional areas where they would operate in a better fashion for the overall betterment of economy and environment and population.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2361-advantages-and-disadvantages-for-young-people-who-decide-to-work-or-travel",
Essay 246:
	There is no doubt that some young students are encouraged to work or travel a year after finishing high school. Some people assume that such a step is so beneficial to students while others oppose such ideas. In my point of view, I think this idea has both advantages and disadvantages.
	An advantage of travelling or working just after high school and before attending university is the change to learning new things and gaining valuable work experience. When young people decide to work instead of getting straight to the university, they will get accustomed to the work environment and learn about several skills upon which they can build their future. In this way, it can be definitely assumed that they will be more than ready for any future work, be it a university study or any other job. For example, my brother preferred to work when he finished high school with the aim of learning new skills. Upon completion of high school, he easily found a suitable job and impressed the employers with his experience while also attending his university classes. 
	On the other hand, travelling or working instead of focusing on the university education has some negative impacts. When young people prefer to travel just after completing their high school, they may encounter cultural shocks. For example, one of my relatives decided to travel in young age and due to his immaturity and lack of knowledge of the outside world, he was utterly shocked by the customs and the way of life there. He was unable to get familiar with that community and was completely disappointed since he was unable to stay there. Consequently, his decision was against him because he did not get any benefit from his travelling.
	In conclusion, no one can deny that travelling or working during high school has its positive and negative impacts. So, high school students are highly recommended to know their abilities and readiness before embarking on working or travelling in order not to be shocked or otherwise.
Essay 247:
	In today's modern world, many students are planning to further their studies immediately after they finish school. However, there are a handful of people who assert that young teenagers should be given a chance to travel or work for at least one year before they really attend a university. Thus, it is important for us to establish both the positive and negative impacts on young people who plan to go on a trip or start to work before starting their tertiary education.
	Undoubtedly, there are numerous benefits if young people were to work or to travel around the world after they finish school. To begin, working or travelling helps the students to gain precious life experiences which are not available on textbooks. To illustrate, when young adults come out to work before attending a university, they are actually being offered a valuable opportunity to get into contact with others. It is crucial for them to develop interpersonal skills which play an indispensable role in their studies and their prospective jobs. In addition, if they were planned to go on a trip worldwide, they would, unquestionably, learn about the cultures and traditions of the locals which may be slightly or totally different from theirs. It, indirectly, widen their horizons and may help them to reduce the experience of culture shock when they arrive in a new place in the near future.
	Nevertheless, a coin always has another side. If they decide to work or to travel for a year, they may graduate later than their peers. The statistic of recent research conducted in Columbia has shown that memorising and interpreting abilities of a student deteriorate as they grow older. In other words, it means that they are likely highly not to achieve their aspirations due to the continual weakening of the mental abilities of their brains. Besides, they may have forgotten about the foundation of certain subjects that they have learnt in secondary school. Again, it will probably lead the students who start their tertiary education late fail to gain success in their academic performances.
	In conclusion, although there are both benefits and damaging consequences if they travel abroad or work after they finish school, I believe every individual can still strive hard and achieve their set goals regardless of life experience and age. Our nation will continue to prosper and flourish in the decades to come if more educated and knowledgeable generations are being raised up.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2360-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1090-legal-age-at-which-people-can-marry-should-be-at-least-21",
Essay 248:
	Nowadays, it is a unanimous notion that for some people that the legislation about marriage in terms of age should be at least 21.However, the others suppose that this rule is completely based on the fallacious opinion. In this essay, I will cite some arguments and give my stance on this issue.
	Firstly, the young who are going to marry should fathom the life painstakingly. Whilst the duration elapses the egregious plight and quandaries inculcate them to learn the new experiences in the mankind. For most people, in order to underpin this learning, the age limitation is one of the most paramount prerequisites. Because the person whose age is beneath 21 cannot adapt to the certain circumstances easily. Sometimes he will have to deal with tremendous problems and as an implication of it, he will abdicate his responsibilities. Subsequently, it can be rather perilous for his marriage in the future.
	On the other hand, everything is contingent upon the person himself and if he is trustworthy, nothing can cease him from attaining the authentic pinnacle of his marriage. In such condition, the responsibility plays a major role. In spite of the age difference, at times younger people’s marriage becomes happier than those who are older. Because of it, they are so ebullient and their love is rather strong in order to struggle with the difficulties. As a result, these features bring to the stupendous fruition about their marriage.
	Taking all things into account, it seems to me that the age is not a big problem for a happy marriage. The main issue is the dearth of love and responsibility that contribute to the augmenting divorce rate.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2359-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1089-older-people-compete-with-younger-people-for-the-same-jobs",
Essay 249:
	It is true that competition is a significant attitude in a workplace which is more prevalence between young and old employees. There are numerous reasons regarding this issue and various measures can be taken by governments to improve this situation.
	Higher unemployment proportion and the incursion of the innovative breakthrough are the major causes of increased competition amongst both young and old groups. Since people have faced economic recession in the world, the unemployment rate is rising they are more willing to maintain the job they have and youngsters compete with their  older counterparts to find a great job. At the same time, due to the advanced technology, employers find young generation more knowledgeable with higher qualifications. In this regard, youngsters are more likely to be recruited by them. However, the sense of competitiveness will arise at this point because older people believe that traditional and conventional methods are far more useful and never replaced with novel ones.
	Providing greater job possibilities and utilising both young and old people to train each other are the keys to solving this problem. It is governments' responsibility to invest in creating job opportunities and employ or maintain the elderly who are skilled and experienced so as to train younger counterparts. Besides, authorities can offer training courses for old workers in order to boost their technological knowledge. As a result, older people can benefit from the younger to learn modern technology usage at work.
	In conclusion, the competition among the young and the old workers will only be tackled if both groups help each other to improve their weaknesses and providing more job opportunities in the society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2358-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1088-rich-countries-should-allow-jobs-for-employees-who-are-from-poor-countries",
Essay 250:
	Some people believe that developed countries should permit qualified job seekers who are from developing and underdeveloped countries, however, some others argue that it does not necessarily have to impose that discretion. This is not a trivial question to answer. Personally, I agree that there should be such permission for finding jobs from wealthy regions for workers who are originally from poor regions based on national cooperation in encountering poverty and mutual advantages point of views.
	To begin with, fighting poverty is an international responsibility, thus there should be some cooperative efforts between rich and poor regions. Since unemployment may be a major concern triggering poverty in destitute areas, one solution to overcome this problem is by creating a joint-partnership with rich countries that have to allow workers who meet the requirement of skills and knowledge to work. By applying this discretion, skilled employees from poor areas can be harnessed to run work effectively and they also may learn and gain experiences of how working in a progressive area and can bring back this experience to their origin for improvement.
	Furthermore, employing required and talented people from deprived regions can contribute to a mutual advantage between prosperous and poor cities. For successful cities, this idea can help increase their regional income as knowledgeable human resources are available to operate their factory and other occupation. Meanwhile, for deprived cities, it will help coping with poverty because skilled citizens can elevate their earnings to accomplish better life ahead.
	Nature of business and globalisation require rich nations to have talented individuals from different parts of the world to better understand the customer segments of other nations and to market their products and service properly. Organisation like Google, Microsoft and Samsung already have employees from different countries and other organisations in rich countries should follow this trend as well.  
	All in all, employing skilled and qualified workers from poor regions may be a form of national understanding in tackling poverty as well as sharing mutual benefit between rich and poor countries. Life will have a balance when everything is adequate, is not it?
Essay 251:
	In today’s modern world, although there are a number of countries who have become rich and more affluent by following the development and advancement of technology, there are still some nations who have remained poor. Therefore, some people assert that rich countries have an obligation to offer jobs to talented and wise workers who come from the poor countries, which I strongly agree with.
	There are several reasons which influence my view. To begin with, the act of allowing jobs for skilled and knowledgeable employees from poor countries by rich nations is considered to be an effective way to help the poor countries and it will indirectly strengthen the relationship among nations. It is important to ensure there will not be an occurrence of war between the nations which may have negative effects on the people’s lives, for example, it may even cost many innocent lives. By maintaining the close relationship between the countries by offering jobs for the employees from poor countries, the citizens in both nations can live in peace and serenity.
	The following factor that supports the idea of offering jobs to employees from poor countries by rich nations is that it could prove useful in helping the poor countries, especially the third world countries to reduce the cases of poverty. By offering jobs to the citizens from poor nations, they are able to support their family financially when they get back to their home countries. As proverb said, kill two birds with one stone, this action is believed to be beneficial to both sides, not only it will help the poor countries to tackle poverty and starvation problems, but also will help the rich nations to continue to prosper and flourish in the decades to come. This is mainly due to the reason that the talented and intelligent employees from poor countries can contribute endlessly to the rich countries.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree with the idea that rich countries should allow jobs for the employees from poor nations who are talented and intelligent owing to numerous factors. I believe the poor nations will soon become richer as long as the rich countries are willing to lend them a helping hand.
Essay 252:
	Some people believe that developed countries should open migration and work opportunities for skilled and educated people from third world countries, while others disagree with this opinion. The following essay will discuss the statement in details before stating my own opinion and drawing a rational conclusion.
	On the one hand, some experts think that developed countries should accept highly skilled people from underdeveloped countries. It is a fact that many developed countries such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand have a lacking of skilled workers and letting people come from underdeveloped countries to work in such countries would be beneficial for both parties. These developed countries have large natural resources but fewer population and hence they should welcome extra resources from other countries, especially poor countries who have a large population. Obviously, they need a lot of talented and educated people to boost their economic development, and one of the most effective ways is to open a migration path for skilled workers from third world countries.
	On the other hand, it is true that many developed countries have opened their doors to skilled immigrants these days. This fact has a cause a serious problem for many poor countries. Many of their knowledgeable and skilled people have migrated to advanced countries since they would get higher salaries, better benefits and safer political condition. As a result, these countries face difficulties in improving their economic conditions as they lack educated and skilled people. From a different perspective, the open immigration and work opportunity often increases the terrorism in first world countries which are evident from the recent world events.       
	In conclusion, to a certain point, I would agree with the migration policy of some rich countries which accept skilled people from developing countries. However, I also believe that the policy should also be limited to a certain quota, therefore not all of the best people from the poor countries leave their nations. It is obvious that the poor countries also need their best people to develop their countries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2357-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1087-to-know-how-other-people-live-in-other-countries",
Essay 253:
	At recent years, most of the people started to know the cultures of other countries. It is caused by many aspects such as the ongoing growing in international travel and the continuous improvement of variation of media. Inevitably, I believe that this phenomenon is a positive development for several considerations given below.
	To begin with, people in all parts of the world will easily get familiar with other countries' way of life. They will gain acknowledgements relating to the variety of cultures, common beliefs, kinds of religions, even mindsets so they can obtain more wisdom thinking not to judge others by wrong or right. Moreover, they will understand the geographical conditions and typical rules and laws which are applied as in depth processes of learning other civilisations so they attain a complete condition of surroundings in other parts of the world.
	To end with, the economy impacts are also undeniable. The flights industry will thrive, the tourism places will be favourable; the providers of a tour guide will be profitable because people are eager to know more about other cultures by staying close to the original places. As the result, local communities will achieve more income as direct effect and will be aware of social-economy purposes as well as the need for educational capacities (for example, learning foreign languages, mastering calculations of revenues, etc.) as indirectly long term impacts. As consequences, the governments together with city councils should pay more attentions to regulate and stay focus to this economy sector.
	To sum up, the advantages of knowing how other people live in other countries are inevitable so stakeholders are supposed to take responsibilities to maximise the result both social and economy benefits.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2354-how-far-colours-influence-people-s-health-and-capacity-for-work",
Essay 254:
	Colour has always played an important role in the human history and according to some recent research, it affects our consciousness and mood. I personally believe that a proper colour represents a good will and shows tenderness and this is why public buildings should have proper colour and decoration.
	To begin with, we are associated with different colours from the very beginning of our life. Parents and teachers teach us different colours and scientists believe that a child’s ability to classify different colours is connected with his calibre and talent. Thus our brains associate this colours with our moods and feelings. For instance, the red light on the streets sends an immediate alert to our brain to stop our vehicle while the green colour signals us to go ahead. Thus we are trained to react and feel differently with the association of colours. From this perspective, it is important to use soothing and accepted colours in places like schools, hospitals and offices.
	Furthermore, we tend to associate colours with different events from our personal experience. For this reasons, some people relate red with blood while white with peace. Universally blue is the colour of nature and fewer people would complain about it. Besides, people in some countries relate colours with certain moods. For example, more than one quarter Americans believe that the blue has something to do with comfort and cosiness while red represents violence. Due to the influence of colours in human psychology, all renowned food and beverage retailers have their own colour schemes.
	According to an article published on the Huffington Post, a combination of slate blue mixes with olive green and soft cream has helped to foster a team environment in many organisations. This also states that it has increased the team spirit and productivity of employees.
	To conclude, people’s wellbeing often depends on psychological condition and since colour has an acute influence on our mood, proper colour schemes should be used in our homes, offices, schools and public places.
Essay 255:
	Since the beginning of the civilisation, colour is a big part of human life. Different research and experiments have been done to find the effect of colours on people’s mood and psychology and the findings show that feelings of people can be influenced by colour. Hence, public buildings are suggested to use appropriate colour for decoration to motivate people to feel better. I agree that colour can affect our psychology and that is why offices and other public buildings should have appropriate colour and decorations.
	Firstly, a public health service should be located at a nice place, have a comfortable environment and appropriate decoration so that people feel better being there. It is important for the patients who stay there for quite a while or visit there for treatments. The top priority should be the better treatment facility and skilled doctors and then the colour scheme and decoration should be set in a way so that people feel better being there. Green and white could be two suitable colours for a hospital. Colour of the building and decoration matter and that’s why the restaurants and food selling brands have invested a lot of money to find the right colour to inspire people to eat and drink. Almost every renowned restaurant has its own branding and colour to attract people.  Proper colour can keep people calm and help them feel better and that’s why it is especially important for the hospitals and other health care centres to have the right colour and decoration. From my experience, I can say that I can wait more time in a room with soothing colour and decoration than in a messy room with very bright colour.  A particular colour can trigger our brain and arouse our feelings unconsciously.
	Similarly colour and interior decoration used in an office building can affect the mood and psychology of employees. Natural and eye-soothing colours are better for our physical and mental health and directly related to our stress level. Hence using the most appropriate colour in offices is also important. From my personal experience, I can say that I find light green, aqua and white colour very eye-soothing and I prefer to stay in a room decorated using these colours. Probably a very bright red colour would give me a headache as it is often related to anger, frustration and fire. Thus I believe that colours are directly and indirectly related to people’s work performance, mental state and health.
	To conclude, I stand to claim that colour has a big effect on human psychology in many ways. Thus, colour or decoration of a room should never be selected randomly. Rather a good amount of time should be invested to colour any building.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2353-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1085-some-people-believe-that-the-good-leaders-are-born",
Essay 256:
	It is often stated that some people are born to be a leader. However, many people assume that a good leader may achieve leadership skill due to social interaction. Personally, I reckon to the second statement that to be a leader means to have the ability to understand some needs of the public and having proper behaviour and the leadership quality is achieved rather than to born with. 
	To begin with, the leadership qualities may trigger when there are crisis or opportunities in a community or a particular place which allows individuals to step forward and take some responsibilities. These characteristics occur to respond the social requests for overcoming some obstacles in that place. For example, when there is an election in a region, some individuals can register to be a leader, however, the only way to ensure the real figure is by giving matters to solve which may prove their leadership ability. Therefore, people who gain some input from society may have better qualities than people who have less interaction ability.
	Furthermore, it is believed that person in charge should respect one another. It means that they could manage and embrace people from various types. At the same time, the leader should treat others equally regardless their background and social status. Treating people equally might seem challenging in term of social satisfaction. However, if a leader can solve this issue, they will be known as a real leader.
	Some people are born with leadership quality as per many people’s opinion. But I believe that leadership is a quality which is related to someone’s personality, social influence, motivation and ambition. It is not unusual that we have so many great leaders in our history who simply responded to the need of time and stepped forward to help others. Leadership is a quality we must learn and feel passionate about.
	In conclusion, some qualities of leadership could not be achieved as a gift or destiny, yet it takes time and effort. Being friendly to society may become indispensable aspect to reach that goal since this opportunity provides people to engage deeply.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2352-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1084-clothing-should-be-bought-and-used-more-wisely",
Essay 257:
	Stylish and branded dresses have significant demand among people in all over the world. While it is highly desirable due to its charm, I believe that outfits should be selected according to one’s necessity and comfort instead of the modern trend.
	From my point of view, there are few reasons for people to usually want to have new dresses even when they do not need them at all. One of the strong issues behind this is “impression”, which people think embarks by fancy dresses.  Sometimes it has considered as a first and foremost requirement to being up to date, confident and good looking. Apart from this, another indicator that insists people having stylish clothes is the fascination with their favourite celebrities and following their vogue blindly. Keeping up with the latest fashion and to be on trend are two factors people do to attract admirers in many cases. Undoubtedly, these are the factors that drive the world fashion industries and designer labels towards the supreme positions.
	Despite those reasons, we must admit, a basic need of our life like “cloth” should be purchased more smartly and wisely. Excessive shopping of dresses should be avoided because there are also many productive ways in our life where investing this money and time seem more sensible. For an instance: by cutting the extra budget of useless clothes, one can easily raise a fund for the purpose of entertainment, own a business or can run any kind of charity organisation. Furthermore, one should care about his or her appearance and the particular ambience while selecting a dress. Because it is the real definition of smartness that grabs more attention than modernised open up outfits. Following trendy fashions often contradicts with someone’s native culture and that can lead to social problems. Have a sense of style does not mean that someone has to wear the expensive and latest dresses always.
	In conclusion, while spending money, time and energy for having useless dresses just to show off and attract attentions, I believe utilisation of these elements in other creative areas and choosing comfortable clothes are far more reasonable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2351-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1083-giving-a-smaller-amount-of-money-weekly-to-children",
Essay 258:
	Caregivers share the common ground when it comes to childcare activities. In this regard, showing the correct ropes for a growing child to become a shining star in life has been a monopoly for years. Giving weekly pocket money for their wards seem to be a helpful method to make them grow as more competent individuals, according to some parents. While this practice is being beneficial to a certain extent, I also believe it has its own drawbacks.
	Money given on a weekly basis to children could help them to become adept at financial management in future. This is because right from childhood they would know the value of money and what can be bought with how much cost. Besides, they would have also been exposed to situations wherein they have to save a fortnight’s money to get something essential. For example, a recent study on child’s attitude to finance, 2014, presents that, if Rs 50 is given per week to a child, the response would be planned expenditure in the fourth week in comparison with the first week. All in all, this change in perception of finance and its efficient planning would definitely help out in the future life of every child.
	On the flipside, the penny allotted for children at an early age could deteriorate their lives. There are high probabilities that they may be misled due to their acquaintance. Take for an instance, a child whose essentials are taken care by parents and does not want to spend money on anything, a companion of the child, in particular at the adolescent stage, might make him indulge in some anti- social activities like smoking or drinking. Therefore, until a child gets matured to become aware of the ins and outs of life, even a single penny given would drift away him or her from the path of life.
	In conclusion, though a grown-up man or woman takes some time to get on grips economically and attain a social status, it is all a part and parcel of life. In my opinion, the early stage of life, childhood should only be spent for having academic skills as well as pedagogic learning of basic expenses. But if the mother’s and father’s trust this method, the expenses are to be followed by them to borne fruitful results out of this.
Essay 259:
	It is common that many parents today offer nominal sums of money to their children weekly. Some people assert that this method of financial gifting would develop certain independent skills required for children in the long run. I personally agree that this would make children more capable and skilled in money management as they grow older for various reasons but would possess some dangers that cannot be ignored.
	To begin with, one of the major advantages of this practice is the accomplishment of the knowledge about money management in childhood. Moreover, it is a fact that childhood is the formative period of life. Therefore, if children are taught such skills, certainly that would strengthen their ability to confront with various skills and tribulations in the long run. Another merit of this act is that this money could be used for their personal needs especially in emergency situations. To cite an example, children can effectively manage incidences like the unexpected cancellation of the public transport and strikes and so on. Besides, the habit of saving can be cultivated and parents can keep them happy and satisfied and thereby strengthen the family bonds.
	On the other hand, it can be noticed that children are just agile and fun-loving in nature, who are not always physically and mentally matured enough to take informed decisions about money. These youngsters, who are tender-minded, could use this money for various purposes such as smoking, drug addiction and for amazing latest trendy gadgets. The result would be even more disastrous as it would surge the number of crimes in the society. To cite an example, many evil minded people could take it as a source of revenue by cheating and harming the vulnerable children for the money.
	In conclusion, I believe that though weekly allowance by parents to children has some positive sides, the negative aspect of this practice is much less rosy than many people think it is.
Essay 260:
	Nowadays, a growing number of people encourage parents to grant a small amount of pocket money weekly to their children. This is because they believe that giving weekly money to young children would enhance their financial management skills in future. However, some childcare organisations and guardians ask parents to avoid giving money to their juvenile. They claim that handing over money to their adolescents in early age might have deleterious impacts. However, I strongly assert that children have the right to receive a lump sum amount of money weekly so that they can readily fulfil their personal necessities and can learn better money management from an early stage of their life.  
	Firstly, it is intuitively obvious that teenagers who receive weekly pocket money from their parents can become experts in finance management in the future life. Additionally, they involve practically in financial matters and since they have limited amount they persist and strive in order to accomplish all their necessities without crossing financial boundaries. Alternatively, granting money to offspring on a weekly basis have other uncountable benefits such as they become familiar with the methodology of bargaining. Moreover, children who want to buy a specific toy or gadget for themselves start accumulating money in their fantastic treasure boxes. As a result, they can primarily go through the sophisticated process of saving money. Ultimately, it is extremely fundamental for parents to allocate a small budget weekly for their children because children's necessities are as mandatory as elder's. On top of this, the biggest demerit of not delivering pocket money to children is that they become a victim of inferiority complexity. Last but not the least, they often create social distances from their friends and family members.
	On the contrary, it is undoubtedly acknowledged that children who start possessing money in their younger ages can instantly involve in illegal activities and bad habits. For instance, drinking alcoholic beverages, taking drugs and smoking require money and children who have money can incline to these bad habits. There are ample evidence to suggest that children who receive extra cash for their necessities are highly likely to commit crimes and get involved in bad habits.  
	In conclusion, although offspring who do not grab a single penny from their parents are somewhat protected from getting into bad habits like smoking and alcoholic addictions, but in my opinion, parents should provide freedom to their kids in terms of purchasing their favourite and desired products and gadgets. As a result, they would probably become experts in purchasing, financial management, saving as well as bargaining.
Essay 261:
	Many people think that giving some money to children on a weekly basis will assist them in becoming more capable when they grow older. I personally disagree with the statement and the following essay will discuss some of my reasons for disagreement.  
	Firstly, by giving a small amount of money to children regularly we are not teaching them about being independent. It is a fact that children are learning many things from their parents in the early age and parents must do their best in becoming a good role model for them. By giving money to children routinely, these parents are teaching their children that they do not have to work hard or do something important to earn money. They will learn that someone will give them some money every week which they could spend on. For example, I can recall some of my cousins who regularly get a good amount of money from their parents and yet they have not build up any habit of being independent or any sense of saving money for the rainy days.      
	 Secondly, the money could be misused by the children as they could spend it for buying inappropriate stuff. It is undeniable that children are not yet mature and do not have the wisdom in managing their own money. They might purchase things which might be inappropriate for them, especially in third world countries where children are allowed to buy cigarettes or alcoholic beverages. Many teenagers, for example, get money from their parents and spend those for buying drugs or cigarettes which eventually harm their future rather than making any good.      
	In conclusion, some people believe giving children a small amount of money each week would help them in becoming more capable when they become adults. I do not agree with the statement as I believe that it could spoil them and the money could be misused. I agree if parents would teach children to earn some money by having a part-time job during the summer holiday, therefore they will appreciate their income and spend it wisely.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2350-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1082-environmental-problems-affect-all-the-people-in-the-world",
Essay 262:
	Our mother earth is weeping because of the two major threats, pollution and climate change. In spite of many global conferences being held to find out a permanent solution, a promising remedy is yet to be put into action. This essay will shed some light on the need to look for an effective plan and the alternatives that could put an end to these ever growing issues in the near future.
	There are several reasons to support the ineffectiveness of the solutions provided. Firstly, the more pragmatic the solution is the more it would be implemented and many decisions which are taken so far to combat the climate changes are less pragmatic. Take for an instance, putting up the usage of private vehicles tends to be something that can only exist on black and white. Secondly, measures taken so far seem like would be effective only in a long run. As a result, we still suffer the consequences of poor air quality, global warming and unpredictable climate. Finally, if only the rules enforced are stringent, is there a possibility for it to be implemented. The figures of authorities are usually less careful about the long-term effects of these global concerns on the future generation. Mitigation! That is what the world needs. The world leaders take decisions to fight the pollutions and climate change and many of these decisions remain in the papers and never see the daylight. The ideas should be implemented not discussed. The lack of implementation and budget are two main reasons we still have the pollution and increased Earth temperature.
	However, there are possibilities to make this planet clean and habitable again. For this to happen, sharing of vehicles among commuters of same destination or a reliable public transportation could be introduced. Besides, instead of focusing on long-term actions like reducing deforestation done for residential purposes, plantation of a large number of saplings and creation of awareness programmes for students would be much more operative. Furthermore, a hefty fine for non-environmental friendly activities ought to be followed to make the solutions efficient. The world leaders have to make things happen rather than discussion and decisions. They should enforce every country to implement the measures they think useful. Funnily, they decide to reduce the number of private vehicles on the roads and yet their countries produce millions of cars to export to other countries and they are investing more on space research than to make the world livable. That’s something that should be taken seriously not lightly.
	To bring the curtains down, the whys and wherefores of dissolutions that didn’t bear fruits were put in the limelight and also the immediate changes that can be done to hand down the globe as it is to the posterity were suggested.
Essay 263:
	It is undeniable that environmental issues such as global warming and pollution have negative impacts on all countries and these negative consequences would affect the whole world. Even though some global solutions have been addressed to solve these problems, many people believe that they were not effective and efficient. The following essay will discuss some of the reasons why the solutions were not successful and how these issues should be resolved.
	For a number of reasons, solutions that have been implemented for resolving environmental issues were considered as ineffective. Firstly, solutions were only implemented by certain countries. For example, only a few countries in the world implement carbon monoxide test for vehicles such as Canada or Australia while it should have been done in all countries. Other countries such as India and China are allowing vehicles with all conditions to commute in their streets and roads. Secondly, some countries do not provide clear regulations and laws regarding to environmental issues. For instance, in several countries, there is no fine or penalty when people throw the garbage to the river or sea. As a consequence, oceans are still polluted with waste from these countries. Though many global policies have been taken, many of them are not implemented in many countries. This is the main reason we still have increasing world temperature and pollutions.
	There are some solutions that the United Nations and governments could consider to resolve these environmental issues. One of the solutions is that it must be agreed and implemented by all countries. For example, Air Conditioners and Refrigerators must not use CFC gas which is dangerous for the ozone layers. These regulations must be implemented internationally, and for countries that still use CFC must be banned and given penalties. And then, each country should have strict regulations regarding to environmental issues and the United Nations should audit each of these countries on a timely manner. By having a review from an independent party, each country is forced to implement friendly environmental practices in their area.
	In conclusions, I believe that global environmental issues could be resolved, as long as all countries participate in implementing the solutions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2349-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1081-prevention-of-health-problems-is-more-important-than-treatment",
Essay 264:
	It is sometimes argued that more money should be spent on preventive measures than treatments, as they are of greater importance. However, I would argue that cure and prevention are equally important when it comes to spending money in these areas.
	There are several reasons why it can be argued that government should spend money on tackling the causes of diseases. Cost-effectiveness is the key element when placing more importance on these initiatives. By allowing people to have access to these health monitoring strategies, governments can avoid the hefty priced hospitalised treatments or other extravagantly expensive medicines. Take the modified gene coding as an example, the technique of relocating genes in the DNA of human beings can help deliberately avoiding inherited lethal illnesses in newborns such as diabetes. In this way, not only the financial pressure on health care departments can be reduced, but also the painful suffering caused by these contagious sicknesses. Hence, an improved quality of life for those who take these measures is a better alternative. So, if government prioritises preventative approaches as a mandatory element in tackling health problems, people would surely be leading healthy lives in a near future.
	In conclusion, governments have to make health reforms properly by investing equally in the cure and prevention of epidemic health illnesses in order to have better outcomes from health deprived people as well as ensuring a healthy and energetic living for them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2348-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1080-companies-and-individuals-should-pay-to-clean-up-the-environment",
Essay 265:
	It is often argued that people should be charged in accordance with the amount of pollution they produce. While I accept that certain organisations should be penalised for this, I believe that every individual should not be forced to pay a fine.
	There are several reasons why the giant entrepreneurs should pay for contaminating the land. Having penalised with a specific amount of money factories will help the government to raise money which can be used in a variety of long-term and rationalised measures to mitigate the pollution from the earth. This will also deter them from producing more garbage and pollution. Take London as an example, where governments have invested recently a hefty amount of money in public transportation, in particular, local buses which have been designed to be much more efficient than the older ones. So these vehicles discharge fewer combustible pollutants into the air. Also, these self-centered companies sometimes exploit natural resources such as forests, water land and agricultural lands, beyond all their limits just to increase the profit. If these companies are not obliged to share the amount of money, which is required to curb pollutions, they will become more short-sighted (or greedy) in terms of making more money without even caring about the impact on climate change and environment.
	However, I would argue that every individual should not be liable to pay recommended fine. It is unrealistic that we can stop people from polluting the universe merely by imposing charges. Because people need electricity to enjoy technologies, a farmland to grow crops and an accommodation to live, food to eat as well as a mean of transportation to travel. Furthermore, if people from devastated backgrounds are charged more for the impact they have on climate; it will create an upheaval situation where lower-income groups would not be able to pay even for their daily necessities.
	In conclusion, organisations who are earning millions of pounds by exploiting natural resources should only be obliged to share the amount of money in curbing the pollution rather than all the common citizens.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2347-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1079-genetic-engineering-is-an-important-issue",
Essay 266:
	People all around the world take into account the significance of genetic engineering. Although it is sometimes thought that it has numerous benefits to humanity, others are of the opinion that it could bring destruction to the ecosystem. However, my opinion on that issue is that both negative and positive effects of genetic engineering should be carefully researched and then should be used for the greater good of humanity.
	There are certain factors of the genetically engineering products. Firstly, crop modification will bring resistant to various plant diseases and it also targets infestation of unwanted insects. In other words, the amount of pesticides and fertiliser used are reduced. Furthermore, many countries are producing genetically engineered crops to produce a good variety of plants and abundant harvest. Genetic engineering can also address the increased food demands of people around the globe. Many diseases that human genetically inherits can be fought against with the improvement of genetic engineering and it can also ensure a generation.   
	However, some people argue that it brings long-term effects to humanity and environment. Certain reasons for these are the concerns of human health in which most modified foods contain toxins that are harmful to us. Also, it produces a minimal amount of nutrition. Another major concern is the potential harm to the environment- once genetically modified organisms are released into the wild, it interbreeds with the native organism and creates new species that may not be desirable.
	Finally, in my view, it is essential to look at the positive side it brings to humanity. As the population grows, the demand for food supply is increasing, thus, the natural method cannot cope the demand of the people. In this way, scientific way of plantation and farming are fundamental in our environment. Many diseases that cause death to a large number of people could be prevented using the blessing of genetic engineering.
	In conclusion, there are good arguments for and against genetic engineering, so people must continue to research various methods to minimise the negative side effects of engineering products to ensure the betterment of every individual in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2346-many-museums-charge-for-admission-while-others-are-free",
Essay 267:
	To begin with, ticket money for museum entrance discourages many students and low-income families to visit them. The collection of large museums increases day by day and thus people need to visit museums on a regular basis, not just once in a lifetime. When people need to spend money to witness history, many of them prefer going to movies instead. Furthermore, museums are mostly run by state funds and like public parks, sea beaches and libraries, they should be free of cost. The main reason museums get public funds is to convey the national history to the young people and to act as a national pride, not to earn from ticket money. From this regards, charging people for visiting museums have far more demerits than an ignorable advantage it offers.
	Proponents of museum entrance fee believe that the ticket money is necessary for its maintenance while they fail to realise that this cost could easily be covered by the tax payers’ money. Charging these people and their children again is unrealistic. Finally, free entry to the museum would attract more international visitors and spread the cultural uniqueness to the world and thus bring more tourists to a country. If there are charges, tourists would visit more popular places than the museums.
	To conclude, free entrance to museums have numerous long terms and immediate benefits that far outweigh the single monetary advantage ticket money system has.
Essay 268:
	Nowadays, many tourist attractions are present globally which are offered and promoted by the government and one of them is the museum. Museums also preserve and represent the history, traditions and many other important aspects of a country. In some museums, there is a policy that the visitors have to pay money before entering while others are free to visit. I certainly believe that the applied policy i.e. charging visitors for museum entrance derives more benefits than drawbacks.
	First and foremost, money collected from the visitors can be utilised to maintain and develop the museum. For instance, it can be used to cover the utility bills, repairing costs, renovation and staff costs. Maintaining a large museum costs a huge amount of money and the revenue earned from the visitors could be a good source of money to do that. Not all museums are funded by the government and sometimes museum‘s fund is not enough to cover all the costs it requires. If no money is taken from visitors, such museums would have to be shut down.  So admission fee in museums seems very utilitarian to maintain a better museum.
	Furthermore, due to applied tariff, inhabitants who enter a place providing scientific or historical values are likely to spend their leisure time there and do not enter unnecessarily. For example my sister, Lia tends to read carefully the available information provided in the museum and one of the reasons she does that because she wants to get some value from the money she spent. This example makes clear that admission money is seemly very utilitarian to encourage and educate the visitors to use facilities offered maximally.
	On the other hand, entrance fee in museums possibly reduce the guests because most of the people prefer to come to places and spend idle time that can be entered without any money. To illustrate, a garden located in the city gets more visitors than the other amusement parks which require a ticket to enter. The people in the garden go to walk, gossip and to chat with others which should not be the case in a museum. Only interested and real visitors in a museum would make it a better place for people to learn and visit.
	To conclude, although admission charge will attract fewer visitors in a museum in many cases, considering the purpose of a nice museum and to cover the expenses it requires, the entry fees seem to have more advantages than the drawbacks. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2345-university-students-should-study-whatever-they-like",
Essay 269:
	Whether university students should study subjects of their own choices or should they be obliged to study career oriented technology and science major subjects is a widely debated issue. Both of these views have arguments for and against them and this essay delves these views and expresses my opinion before drawing a reasonable conclusion.
	On the one hand, a university is the highest citadel for education in a country and it is considered that it builds the next adept generation who would lead the country. From this regards, the education and teaching policy of the university affect the whole nation. Some experts are in the opinion that students at university level should be given a certain freedom while picking majors they study in and there should not be any predefined syllabus. They opine that forcing them to study some latest subjects for the future employment would make them become workers for offices, not leaders for the country. They also express that letting them study a wide range of subjects would make them far more knowledgeable and prepared to take challenges and this policy would inspire tertiary level students to follow their dream and not just blindly run for their career. Furthermore, society needs as many artists as there are as many scientists. Forcing university students to study only science and teach related subjects would create an imbalance in our society.  
	On the contrary, the university authority must consider the consequences of letting students choose their subjects. A recent study shows that predefined syllabus-bound a student study regularly and prepares for the exam while freedom to take any subject dramatically increases the number of dropout students. This is an alarming issue and this is why the university authority needs to think twice before implementing the policy. Furthermore, development of a nation, these days, highly depends on the technologically sound workforce and universities should yield such workforce for the country. From this perspective, it seems quite logical for universities to teach science related subjects to most of its students.           
	To conclude, universities have to consider the pros and cons of any policy adopted including whether the students are free to pick their subjects or not. Personally, I believe that letting university students prefer their subjects have far more benefits and seem more logical in a broader sense.
Essay 270:
	University students are going to lead different important sectors in few years and hence their education is one of the most important aspects of a country. It is often debated how much freedom they should be given while choosing the subjects and I personally believe that they should have the freedom to pick subjects within a prescribed syllabus, not whatever they like.
	To begin with, the freedom of selecting subjects in university level would make the education more effective and would not force students study subjects that they have no interest at all. Though technology related subjects are quite important, students would not learn that much if he is forced to learn programming while his interest is in literature. Thus a student should be given the freedom to pick the subjects he likes, especially for the university students. For instance, many arts faculties in western universities offer students to pick technology related subjects while the reverse is also true.
	However, an absolute freedom to pick subjects for the university students is not a good idea as well. This will often lead to situations when students will not have sufficient knowledge on some aspects that are crucial for the career. Some students would misuse this facility and pick the same subjects in different semesters. It will also lead to a haphazard situation as most of the students would like to study the same subjects and the university authority would not be able to offer these courses to all.
	To conclude, a certain freedom while picking subjects in university level is very helpful for the overall development and knowledge enhancement of students. However, an absolute freedom would make the outcome worse.
Essay 271:
	Nowadays, it is obviously seen that majority of people tend to carry on their higher education in institutions such as a university or a college. While some citizens believe that students should have their freedom to study subjects that they are interested in while others disagree with it and opine that they have to be involved in major that will be very utilitarian in the future.
	At the beginning, every person in this world is likely to have human rights, which means they are free to follow something that they like, choosing a subject at the university as an example. Generally, students have a tendency to join the major that rely on their passions. To illustrate, my brother, Luce, he has an interest in analysing data and he has decided to go into Statistics and the committee of a university cannot restrict him to study that subject since that action seems restricting someone from his interest. Thus once a student gets admitted to a university or a college, s/he should have the freedom to read the subjects that interest him/ her. Studying from passion is more effective in most of the cases.
	On the other hand, many people feel that students should join in a major, particularly which is related to technology and science, such as natural science and technology, information technology etc. and they should solely focus on studying these subjects. Based on research carried out by Statistics Center in Semarang, it is predicted that due to globalisation, the world will be focused on technology and science in the future. So, it is certainly believed that college students should be involved in correlating with those subjects so that they can adapt to the future circumstances and develop themselves.
	After hashing out both points of views, it can be concluded that although people certainly have a freedom to choose their major in university and colleges, it is a wise decision to study subjects that can be utilised in their future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2344-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1076-mobile-phones-should-not-be-allowed-in-public-places",
Essay 272:
	Different people have different opinions about the usage of one of the most commonly used fidgeting gadgets -mobile phones in public places. While I believe that the rule of restricting its usage could be beneficial to a certain extent, I also put forth that it would create some negative consequences to the regular users and in people's emergencies as this rule would become a scrutiny.
	There are several arguments to support this restriction: First, had the mobile phones been let free in public places like libraries, there  would be a higher probability for the other people to get distracted. This distraction could completely spoil the reading environment for which they are meant for. Secondly, if there is a ban on the usage of mobile phones in railway stations, is there a possibility for the work to progress without any disruption or stagnation. Take for an instance, passengers who are supposed to buy tickets or the issuing authorities have a conversation over their mobile phones while they are supposed to do their duties, there happens a delay in the workflow for no important reason. Though the ban imposed could bring benefits, it is the need of the hour to analyse the drawbacks of it.
	People who oppose the restriction of this rule state that a few negative sides are in the limelight. According to their view, the more they use the mobile phones, the more they will be connected with their circle- be it their family, colleagues or friends. Due to the restriction placed on, they might not find time to catch up with their dear ones’ and this  would be more appropriate for the commuters who  use mobile phones while commuting. Besides this, in cases of emergencies wherein a person has to pick up the call in public places, this rule would be an obstruction. As a result, the information which has to be conveyed to them could be delayed and this may make a great difference in their lives.
	By and large, the restriction of mobile phones in public places has its own fair share of advantages and disadvantages. Therefore, in my opinion, wherever we use a mobile phone, we should make sure that no person or work is disturbed because of our cell phone usage. It is also suggested that every person should think by instinct and use mobile phones as and when it is required.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2343-modern-technology-is-now-very-common-in-most-workplaces",
Essay 273:
	Innovative and latest technology such as internet and computer have an intense effect on the people, especially in their workplaces. As a result, the method of working is transforming continuously. These days, technology has epidemically flared and even overtaking the humans, who are the inventors of the technology. I personally believe that there are more pitfalls on relying technology than the advantages it offers.
	Technology made us work less and move even least. We rely on computer and the internet to have our work done. The faster communication has made the global business a reality, though not without a cost.
	No doubt, technology has negative impacts on the human. Firstly, technology had made people extremely sponger. For instance, people used to travel on foot to in the past especially, in India. As a consequence people remained active and fit and also free from ample of ailments namely fatigue, heart disease and severe disease like cancer as well. Their average life expectancy was far more than the generation we see now. Though it is claimed that technological advancement has enhanced people’s lifespan and cured many diseases, I do not see that it is true. When it was common for people to live more than 100 years in the past, many people nowadays dies at their early 60s.
	Moreover, technology has a greater impact on the young generation. Most of the students and children even cannot do brainstorming in time base task. In addition to this, scholars and children, are losing their own personal skills, this is all because they are not using their own knowledge and creativity. As an example, most of the students are using Wikipedia and imitating the same text in their projects or assignment which is an abominable way to pass the exam. The way people are becoming dependent on technology, a simple mistake on a calculation or a wrong decision taken by a computer device will create a disaster. Consider the nuclear research centre where everything is computerised. If a computer virus attacks this station or a hacker hack this station, this could lead to a global catastrophe.  
	Our relationship with each other has seriously been affected due to the modern technology like smartphones, computers and social networking websites. People no longer interact each other in person so intimacy among them is plunging day by day. To illustrate, webcams and the internet are the predominant reasons behind this. Technology has reached to the institution where students get best study (smart classes) hence communications among students and tutors are dropping.
	To encapsulates, technology has alleviated humans to some extent but, when the technology will advance to the redundant level and we will solely rely on this - it will be the Doomsday for the Earth.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2342-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1074-difficult-for-children-to-concentrate-in-school",
Essay 274:
	It is true that children face a lot of challenges in their schools these days to give complete focus on academics due to various reasons. Even though there are many causative factors, parents and teachers can take several steps to mitigate these issues.
	There are many reasons behind the lack of concentration among school children in classrooms. First and foremost, unlike the past, today the number of broken and single-parent families is increasing. Children from such families cannot focus completely on their studies as they are not mentally healthy and happy. For example, in India, a recent survey report showed that failure rate is much higher among children who come from problematic families than the other children. Next, nutritional status is another important fact. Since pupils have more things to study, they often skip breakfast to save time. As a result, they become fatigued and weak easily when they reach schools and it affects negatively in their academic performance. Other important reasons for the lack of attention among children in schools are increasing air and noise pollutions, unhealthy diets, addition to computer games and insufficient parenting.
	However, there are several ways to tackle these problems effectively. I believe the most obvious solution is that parents should maintain a healthy and comfortable environment at home, which provides mental pleasure and energy to children for performing in school appropriately. Besides, they will be happy instead of unreasonable mental agony and psychological depression. Consequently, they can achieve higher grade or score in examinations. A further step would be to encourage nutritional intake of children by parents and teachers. Parents should prepare a balanced diet for students and moreover, they should promote and cultivate nutritional healthier habits. Next, nutritional classes should be organised in school premises to increase the awareness among pupils. The teacher should make sure that the classes are interesting and children’s can enjoy them. It is natural that when a classroom does not grab the attention of children, they will feel disconnected and bored. Enough emphasis should be put on making lessons suitable for children. Parents should make sure a healthy lifestyle and balanced diet for their school going children.  
	To conclude, despite many causes and risk factors, parents and teachers can share a collective responsibility to enhance the concentration of children at school and studies to a large extent.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2341-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1073-people-are-choosing-to-live-alone-nowadays",
Essay 275:
	These days many people chose to live alone, especially in metropolitan areas and this rate is far higher in developed countries and seems like this has become quite normal there. I believe this trend has more negative consequences than the few positive outcomes it offers.
	The single-person family is seen to be positive from better personal skill development and economic perspective. A single-member family forces a person to learn some basic skills including cooking, cleaning the house, paying the utility bills, managing personal finance, purchasing daily commodities, adopting hobbies and many more important skills. This makes someone self-dependent which has a greater impact on the development of the country in a broader sense. For instance, research shows that students who stay away from home for their tertiary degrees learn more skills and become more self-dependent than pupils who study from home. Moreover, a single-person family member is bound to do a job, business or have some sort of arrangement for a steady earning and this trend has a great positive impact on a country’s economy.     
	From the opposite viewpoint, the trend of increasing single-person family has many negative consequences. Firstly, the increasing trend of living alone has a direct relationship on the percentage of people suffer from psychological problems these days. Living alone creates loneliness and depression, unlike the traditional family where there are always others to share someone’s distress and sadness. The isolation often leads people to choose a lifestyle that is often negative. A recent study reveals that single-person family members often rely on drugs and many of them become addicted. The human is a social being and living alone is against their natural tendency. For many, bearing the total expenses is tough and this leads them to get involved in crimes.
	In conclusion, the number of single-person families is increasing these days and this has some positive aspects despite many severe negative consequences.
Essay 276:
	In the recent years, most people, particularly in developed countries, likely to opt for living independently. Although living solo come along with several drawbacks, I would consider this more of a positive development.
	For several reasons, living alone may have some drawbacks. Firstly, living independently can be extremely costly as life is becoming increasingly complex and property price is just skyrocketing. This has created a difficult situation in finding an accommodation at a reasonable price. For this reason, single occupants may have to work unbelievably hard to make their ends meet. Being a singleton has meant that they cannot expect any financial or moral support from family or relatives in most cases. Lone occupants are more likely to experience depression, anxiety and uncertainty with bearing all household responsibilities on top of pursuing a work life than family-oriented people. As a result, single people tend to lead a hectic as well as burdensome life with having a feeling of being resented and anguished and therefore resulting an unhealthy lifestyle.
	On the other hand, I believe that people, leading a life as single dwellers are the luckiest one. A sense of freedom with an acute privacy is something considered as the most desirable element of a happy life. This is the main reason why single occupant tends to be seen as a successful peer of the society. Because living a life on their own allows them to invest a precious time in the development growth and shaping out their personality. Furthermore, single people are likely to attend more public social affairs, thus allowing cities and urban areas to reinvigorate as they spend more money on holiday-making, doing outdoor activities or surfing other services compared to their couple counterparts. Finally, if more people became independent, the more they live greener by living in apartments or near to towns instead of living in suburb houses and commuting to work from far away stretched distances.
	To sum up, going solo may have some disadvantages but I would argue that this development should be seen as a progress.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2340-ielts-essay-1072-children-to-learn-the-difference-between-right-and-wrong",
Essay 277:
	How much freedom a child should be given and what sort of punishment could be used to control them is a matter of great concern. Undeniably, too much freedom and lack of necessary control often lead youngsters to go astray while too much punishment makes them dull and less creative. I personally believe that punishment is meant to help children learn lessons and that is why certain punishments that do not involve beating the children is useful.
	To begin with, early childhood experience and lessons have lasting impacts on someone’s life and that is why parents and teachers should try their best to teach morality and good qualities to children. Children are curious and sometimes less mature to understand certain harmful effects of doing something while every father and mother want the offspring to become an ideal and exemplary person in life. They often need to use certain punishment to teach a valuable lesson to a youngster and the sole purpose of this punishment should be teaching a morality, should not be driven by any sort of personal anger or frustration. Physically beating a boy or a girl is in no way should be used as there are far better ways of punishing a child to teach him something.
	While physical punishment is no longer used in most of the developed countries, it could still be found in underdeveloped countries. This form of punishment, in my opinion, should not be used. More effective penalties could be not talking to the child for a misconduct or not taking him to the playground for a day or two. Similarly, parents could refrain from awarding the child with chocolate or toys and reminding the child why he does not deserve those. If parents have a friendly relationship with the children and simply expressing their frustration for an act of the child, that would work like the magic. From my personal experience, I can say that I took matters more seriously when my father stopped talking to me for a certain period for something he disliked about me and I vowed many times to myself not to do that again.
	To conclude, punishment is necessary to teach children morality and help them learn to distinguish good things from bad ones. However, this punishment should not be physical, rather psychological and practical.
Essay 278:
	Education is likely to be the most important thing to be learnt by every child and that education is not restricted in academic lessons only but also in behaviour field as well. Most people think that young children should be taught about attitude at an early age and a punishment is required in some cases to complete this education. I certainly believe that some punishment for the betterment of the children should be allowed which I will brief in the following paragraphs.
	First and foremost, it seems that teaching good behaviour and virtues, when children are still in young ages, will be easier both by parents and teachers. Moreover, if this lesson is followed by an appropriate penalty, they will fear and think twice before breaking the applied rules. Research carried out by Statistics Center in Semarang shows that the plenty of youngsters are easier to have a good manner if they got this lesson before they reach their maturity. In addition, if the youngsters know that they will be rebuked and punished if they commit bad actions, they will usually stay away from committing mischievous acts. This research makes clear that a lesson followed by convenience punishments at an early age is likely to be a wise idea to create the youngest being a good member of the society.
	However, the punishment should always bet to teach a lesson not to intimidate a child. The teachers and parents should always think about alternative ways before imposing any punishment to a child. If the child commits the same abominable act several times, then a minor punishment to teach a lesson should be given. A severe punishment by a teacher or parents could psychologically damage a child and the teachers and parents should always be careful about their way of punishment. Sometimes taking away a favourite toy from a child can be an effective punishment where no physical punishment is required.  The teacher and parents should keep in mind that the main purpose of the punishment if to teach the child a lesson not to hurt him physically.
	After hashing out the issue, it can be concluded that a lesson to have good manner should be taught as early as possible and the effective punishment like rebuking or taking away favourite toys.
Essay 279:
	Children are at such age of their life when they merely distinguish between the right and the wrong. It is very necessary for parents and teachers to teach them the same, first, by suggestion or advice followed by punishment as many times their inexperienced mind tempt them to do mistakes. Punishment should not affect a child negatively; rather it must be constructive for them.
	Nowadays children are most vulnerable to get affected by surroundings and electronic media as they easily get exposed to such media. It is impossible to protect them getting exposed to the external environment. Hence it is mandatory for parents or teachers to make them aware of morality and injustice at this age and sometimes punishment is necessary to protect them. At an early age, a child possesses boundless curiosity as he is just exposed to an outside world or society. Thus they imitate what they see and that turns out to be disastrous at times. To avoid that minor punishment is the best way as fear of punishment makes them stay away from many wrong doings. To prove that, the Stanford University had done many surveys on children and the results show that 80% children who had already been punished for their particular mistakes had not repeated the same, on a flip side only 40% who are just advised.
	On the other hand, punishments should always be associated with some lessons for children. Punishment must be fruitful and it must not be physically or mentally harmful. For example, world's nursery in Japan asks children to plant trees as a punishment. Many schools in India punish children by asking them to run few kilometres. Such punishments are constructive for children's health and society as well.
	To conclude, I believe that children have to learn about positives and negatives at this age and punishment is one of the effective ways to guide them learn this distinction. However, parents and teachers must use constructive and positive punishments to show them the right path.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2339-children-tend-to-spend-a-great-deal-of-time-playing-computer-games",
Essay 280:
	Nowadays, many children spend a considerable amount of their time by playing computer games. While most of the people, especially parents, think that this is a waste of valuable time and this time should be utilised for learning academic lessons or taking part in outdoor activities, very few think playing computer games is helpful for children’s cognitive development. I firmly believe that children should play computer games particularly brain games and strategy games but a balance should be maintained so that it does not become an addiction.
	In the highly developed technological modern world, it is important for children to play computer games. Firstly, by doing this they can learn how to use computers and become familiar with new technology. Moreover, children communicate to each other at school during the break and often discuss different strategies of some particular computer game. Not only do they develop their skills and knowledge such as 3D vision, imagination, and fantasy by playing those, but also computer game is the new modern way of leisure activity for young people, which help them develop thinking patterns, have friends online and build an online world. Many computer games are great learning resources and therefore parents and teacher should supervise what type of games a child play and how much time they spend on that.
	On the other hand, spending too much time on computer games might be dangerous for children. For example, some children may not do their homework because they become addicted to computer games and play those most of the time. Also, children have less face-to-face communication with their friends and families as they are busy with games. Furthermore, some of youngest might even become aggressive as computer games expose them to violence and fighting. Therefore, the assistance from adults is needed to help children to keep a balance between computer games and other compulsory deals. Spending too much time can be detrimental to the children’s health, especially for their eyes.
	To conclude, a balance is required to ensure children are not playing computer games too much and spending a lot of time in front of computers may lead to disadvantages in other arrears of life such as social communications. However, playing computer games for learning and exploring new ideas can be a very effective way to enhance knowledge and imagination for children.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2337-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1070-giving-homework-daily-to-school-children-works-well",
Essay 281:
	It is true that homework is an essential part of education for school children. Some of them think that homework helps them enormously, whereas others are of the opinion that it has very little value for students. Even though it brings some disadvantages, such activities are often considered to be advantageous due to various reasons.
	People who argue that homework is very useful among school children consider many important factors. First and foremost, since homework is the important part of education in younger classes, it will cultivate a regular study habit in them considerably. To make it clear, pupils are forced to learn lessons whatever they studied in their classroom every day and they never forget such things in the long run. Moreover, they can achieve higher score or grade in their final examination. To explain, if they do homework on a daily basis, obviously doubts can easily be clarified and it would help to understand each and every aspect. Naturally, students can face examinations without much preparation as well as without any fear.
	Furthermore, free time can be utilised efficiently instead of playing games. It also gives insight among students about the serious aspect of education in life. As a result, they develop a sense of responsibility and time management skills from the tender age onwards. Consequently, it would lead to the development of productive citizens.
	However, there are others who contend that homework causes detrimental effects on children. This reduces leisure time of children to a great extent. Such imposed study exercises may create a negative attitude in children. Besides, some of them have a tendency to copy from other children as they are not capable themselves and they want to impress teachers as well. Nevertheless, I am strongly inclined to favour the idea the former statement because of the immense benefits.
	To conclude, despite some disadvantages, it offers many benefits to both children and society in many ways.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2336-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1069-in-what-ways-can-society-benefit-from-contribution-of-older-people",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2333-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1068-to-what-degree-should-parents-intervene-14-15-year-old-children",
Essay 282:
	It is widely believed that grown-up children should be granted to take some particular responsibilities for making their own decisions at the age of sixteen.  I am on the belief that parents still have authorities on guiding their children at that time as long as it is not too much intervening. I will outline two measures that can be done by parents for guiding their children.
	First of all, the most important area is safety. Children tend to do something based on what they like but careless on its risks. Likewise, children are more curious than adults that they want to try anything. For instance, in some developing countries like Indonesia, especially in a village, many adolescents ride a motorcycle before they are 15 years old and they do not require a driving license. Commonly, they drive fast and do not wear a helmet. This issue needs parents’ attention. Therefore, parents should give advice and necessary information about the suitable time for them for riding a vehicle.
	Another measure is financial management. In some regions, most teenagers depend on their parents for money. It is my firm belief that guiding them on how to manage money from the young age will be valuable for their future. In addition, children could make a better decision on what their money should be spent on. For example, parents should give a particular amount of money regularly. They have to commit that there will be no extra funding even though it is hard up. Therefore, children’s awareness will go up and the probability of getting a part-time job is highly likely to happen. 
	Proper guidance from parents can build a better future for the children. Teenagers often lack the experience for taking important decisions and the parents should always be friendly and supportive while guiding their children.
	In short, whilst young people are granted particular privileges at a certain age, parents still have authorities for controlling them but without too much intervening. Children still need guidance for their future wellbeing.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2331-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1067-growing-economy-can-be-useful-to-poor-and-hungry",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2330-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1066-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-living-in-a-media-rich-society",
Essay 283:
	Usages and influence of media in our life and society have dramatically increased around the globe over the last few years. It has become a mandatory part of people’s lives as media are everywhere. Youngsters are mostly influenced by media because of its numerous benefits. People of other age groups are also influenced by the media. They are using this in the form of newspapers, television, radio and internet to avail maximum advantages such as information dissemination, entertainment and latest updates of various promotions etc. However, the increasing use of media has some detrimental effects on the society.
	There is no doubt that media play a pivotal role in learning. A large number of people are using electronic media to complete their education assignment and projects, for instance, YouTube has a large volume of lectures in the form of videos to assist thousands of viewers. Moreover, media has a diversity of programs to entertain its target audience. It also helps them to increase their knowledge about current issues worldwide. Media often increase our awareness and inform about things that are happening around us. Thus it is a great tool to bring people together.  
	However, media has also increased people’s woes. In order to increase rating, they are more opted to portray negative news and bad aspects of society that made people tense and increased their worries. Furthermore, people are less perceptive to physical activities because they do not want to skip their favourite television show and thus they become lethargic that makes them susceptible to illness such as laziness, obesity and anxiety. Political biasness, monetary gaining and vengeance are often practices in some media and that has very detrimental effects on our society.
	To sum up, I would like to say media has more advantages that outweigh its disadvantages. Media make people independent and give them freedom to raise their voice against corrupt perpetrator residing in government and private institutions. However, students are more diverted to other issues highlighted by media than their focal point, which is education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2306-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1065-celebrities-say-their-private-lives-should-not-come-under-media-scrutiny",
Essay 284:
	Being a member of the contemporary world, it is everyone’s right to spend their personal and private life according to their own will. Media has great influence on celebrities’ lives and often highlights their private matters, which is considered to be a shameful tactic and they mainly do to get higher publicity and ratings for their television and newspapers etc. Some people claim that famous stars compromise with the fact that disclosing and revealing their hidden truths would end up in giving them more fame and commercial gain.
	Firstly celebrities are also human beings and they have right to enjoy the comfort of their personal life without having interference of the outside world. In ordinary life, they also behave, act and live like normal people. They also face numerous problems as other citizens of the country but to bring their personal issues to media is an immoral activity that should be discouraged by all means. They should be treated with care, respect and always acknowledge due to their works and achievement.
	There is no denying that celebrities use such tactics to gain more success and fame in their professional career, discussing and portraying secrets of their life significantly increased their popularity and create a new horizon of opportunities for them. For instance Paris Hilton, a famous Hollywood actress was on the brink of her career end, released her sex tapes to drag the attention of a large audience, suddenly after the release she was in spotlight and limelight everywhere and also got more business afterwards.
	To sum up, I would like to say that people’s privacy is their basic right that should be followed and exercised in all educated societies. However, some celebrities intentionally make them one to public to enjoy lucrative incentives associated with it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2304-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1064-what-is-the-best-method-of-choosing-employees",
Essay 285:
	Selecting the right candidates for the jobs offered is not an easy task,  and it often requires extensive work such as data collection, screenings, scrutiny and interviewing before actually employing the employees. The interview is the most effective and fast way of finding the suitable candidates according to the nature of a job. Some other methods such as comprehensive written test, practical test and different scenarios could also help in this regard. I believe that interview is most successful and widely used technique to select the appropriate employees.
	There is no doubt that interview plays a pivotal role in the recruitment process and has become a mandatory constituent of candidate selection process. Normally, interviews help employers to judge the expertise and knowledge of different candidates about the subject. Some other traits such as confidence, personality, intelligence and communication skills could only be evaluated through the interview. In addition, this is the most convenient and rapid way that could exercise without spending huge expenses and time.
	However, sometimes candidates are unable to perform and express according to their strengths due to shyness and lack of confidence. By this way, employers fail to hire potential and knowledgeable persons. Other methods of choosing employees also significantly help at this time. Written test, practical demonstration of skills and making strategies in given situation are exceptional ways of knowing their strengths and weaknesses and are extensively used in institutions such as education, agriculture and army.
	To sum up, I would like to say that the interview is commonly exercised in contemporary societies because of its effectiveness and higher success rate in selecting the right employees. Other ways of choosing employee are also helpful but demand more costs and time for their setup.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2301-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1063-social-networking-sites-have-a-huge-negative-impact",
Essay 286:
	Usages of social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google + etc. have dramatically increased recently with the advancement of technology. Although, it has many detrimental effects on the society but its positive side cannot be neglected. I believe that technology has a significant contribution in bringing people closer around the globe and also as a source of cheap and efficient communication.
	Social networking sites play a pivotal role in mitigating communication gap not only in the immediate social circle but also with friends and families in remote areas by sharing their news and updates. Social networking sites provide a rapid and effective way of interaction among people. Furthermore, many social groups exist on such sites which help people to find persons of the same interests and attitudes without confiding them to only geographical boundaries. It has recently been seen that many injustice and social issues were shared in social networking sites and that made a huge impact on authority and that has brought justice to the victims. Social networking sites are a common ground for mass people to share their updates, views and other details. Thus this has created a world without any boundary.
	On the other hand, it is often seen that people have become disjointed and fragmented as the social networking sites become prevalent in societies and communities. Youngsters are more receptive to this change would like to spend most of their time on these sites. This has led dire consequences on their physical and psychological health. Moreover, families are greatly affected by this and their social bonding is no more present in contemporary days. People are getting addicted to these websites and thus becoming less social in many cases. Propaganda and fraud relationship have caused many personal and social dilemma.  
	To sum up, I would like to say that people have become more social and interactive by the use of social networking sites. It gives people a sense of freedom to talk around the world without worrying about the huge cost that incurred previously. However, it has severe negative effects, as most of the people opt to talk using technology than meeting others in person due to their busy lifestyle, it increases  the distance in their relationship.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2299-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1062-are-there-more-advantages-than-disadvantages-of-living-in-a-house",
Essay 287:
	Being a controversial subject among people, whether or not living in a private house outweighs being settled in an apartment, is not an easy decision. In this essay, the pros and cons of both these ways of living are going to be discussed.
	People living in a house benefit their privacy as they do not have any neighbours in their place to share some areas like staircases or corridors. Besides, having a desirable garden could be a marked characteristic for individuals being interested in gardening and or providing a sufficient play area for their offspring and pets. Despite a variety of merits, possessing a house could embody some sort of difficulties ranging from low security to some extra maintaining expenses.
	On the other hand, thanks to expanding the state-of-the-art lifestyle in the multitude of cities, especially the mega cities, living in an apartment is going to be more convenient because of some advantages. The main merit is that living in an apartment contributes to being more secured in comparison with a house, as the inhabitants need to take care of just one entrance and building guards provide higher security for the owners, as well. Low independence feeling, however, could be mentioned as the most significant drawback of a flat in a building, particularly towers.
	In conclusion, all things considered, both circumstances of living possess their own plus and minus points. Nevertheless, I somewhat concur that due to the modern way of life in which plenty of people live, living in an apartment could be more profitable with regard to the level of security and lower cost of maintenance of property and some probable repairing issues.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2297-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1061-dieting-can-change-a-person-s-life-for-the-better",
Essay 288:
	There have been dramatic changes in people’s lifestyle and eating habits over the last few years. Large numbers of people are more concerned about their health and they would like to do dieting, exercise and other physical activities to present themselves in good shape. Dieting is the activity that is more practicable in today’s world to reduce body weight. I believe that dieting badly affects our immune and digestion system and make us more susceptible to illness.
	Many people do dieting to reduce their weight without realising its detrimental effect in their body. Firstly they will lack in physical activities and other works that demand hardworking and strength because they are not having sufficient intake of food to produce energy that is required for such activities. This will make them lethargic and their sedimentary lifestyle contributes to weight gain. Secondly, deficient energy in the body will affect the immune system that would show less resistance against viruses and make the human more open for diseases.
	However, dieting plays a substantial role in controlling obesity and youngsters are more attracted towards this technique of weight loose. It helps them in reducing weight and also makes their body sound and finally helps them gain a good shape. In addition to this, dieting also helps in proper working of various organisms in the human body, that is also scientifically proved.
	To sum up, I would like to say that dieting has more disadvantages that outweigh its advantages; people with healthy diet and lifestyle spend better life than others. Therefore, dieting impedes the progress of body and increase the risk of attacking germs and viruses.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2296-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1060-english-should-be-the-primary-foreign-language",
Essay 289:
	English is the most widely-spoken language in the world. In fact, it has gained so much importance in so many countries that it has become an international language. However, other languages like German, French and Spanish are also taught in schools and colleges as well in many countries. My opinion is that giving other foreign languages priority over the English language in schools is not a good idea.
	Over the decade, many people from different cultures and countries have adopted the trend of going and study abroad. Many of them choose to start their careers there as well. At this point, they need to understand and speak English very well. It will help them to communicate with others and they have a better chance to of growth in their fields. From academic success till better presentation skill, from better persuasion till important international meeting and conference, English is needed everywhere. The knowledge of the second language is important but none of them excels the necessity of knowing English and this is why the schools should give priority to English over other foreign languages.
	Learning English as a second language is being essential nowadays, as, people around the world understands English. It makes easier for you to visit any country. Most of the T V channels are in English. All information on the Internet is in English. If you know English you have better job or study opportunities as well. Learning other languages can only be beneficial as a hobby or if you are planning to visit that particular country. Other than that, I firmly agree that English is the necessity of today’s life.
	To conclude, it is clearly understood that learning English is more constructive than any other foreign language. So a priority should be given in schools to teach English as a second language over other languages.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2295-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1059-educating-children-is-a-more-difficult-task-today",
Essay 290:
	Nowadays, thanks to modernisation, the method of teaching has changed considerably compared with decades ago. Developments have led students to spend more time on a variety of electronic communication devices and to become less flexible when it comes to learning lessons at school. However, I personally believe that the overall quality of learning has been fundamentally improved.
	On one hand, in the past, teaching children was far simpler. One reason is that they did not have any access to other study resources. They had to follow their instructors’ rules to learn from theoretical and practical materials instead of using the Internet. For example, to learn English, students mostly used school laboratories and only listened to materials recommended by their teacher.  Now, students can listen and participate in hundreds of online courses through the web, each with different strategies which often confuse learners.  Another issue is that cyber-addiction has lead children to spend less time studying their basic books. Playing video games, which are upgraded every month, chatting on Facebook or texting friends mean children find less opportunity to study and practice their lessons.
	On the other hand, some social networks and telecommunication systems are extremely useful to children. The primary factor is online learning which has become a popular method of teaching in many countries. For instance, to learn biology, children can search and find a variety of topics on the web in few seconds, or download their favourite video lessons by paying a very modest amount of money. Tutors, therefore, spend only a few hours teaching the related subjects in school. Furthermore, social networks have assisted pupils in understanding the materials better. Obviously, in many schools, colleges or even universities, students are encouraged to create study groups and participate in discussions, collecting information far more easily than in the past. In particular, at MIT in the USA, students have private accounts and can connect to any other student in the US university system.  This gives them access to a far wider range of materials, ideas and approaches to data than learning in the past.
	In conclusion, although children had more time to study classroom materials in the past, now they get a better quality of teaching. In my view, online learning and participating in vast educational study groups has led them to learn than in the past.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2266-what-are-the-negatives-and-positives-of-playing-computer-games",
Essay 291:
	Computers today are most common and their gaming aspect is a cult among the teenagers. Computer games are considered to have numerous bad effects, but I think if used in moderation they can be used as an effective tool for learning and development.
	Computer games are considered as a social evil in the society as they are associated with the dogma of time-wasting for school going students. To some extent, that may be true but everything about these games is not negative. Computer games help younger children to develop good hand-eye coordination which is crucial in their early stages. They are also full of fantasies which eventually aid in developing children' brains to be more imaginative and innovative.
	On the other hand, spending a long time on the computer not only wastes valuable time but also renders users physically inactive. Health hazards associated to this mainly includes obesity, weak eyes,  lower back problems and so on. Apart from this, cognitive development, which is critical during childhood, tends to go for toss thanks to increased addiction to gaming. These problems are a cause of concern among parents.
	To curb their negative aspects, parents should keep strict control over the time children are exposed to these games and should promote engagement in physical and brain games. In fact, game producing companies have also realised this and have started preparing gaming consoles which involve more physical movement, suggesting that everyone is doing their bit to promote the positive aspects of this innovation.
	To conclude, there are always two sides associated with everything: one affirmative and the other negative. It all comes down to how you want to utilise the potential of any innovation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2265-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1057-increase-in-the-number-of-people-got-killed-on-the-road",
Essay 292:
	Death toll has been increased significantly in various parts of the world over the last few years. Large numbers of casualties are happening due to over speeding, violation of traffic rules and poor infrastructure of roads. People associated with traffic department claim that rash driving, excessive speed of cars and unwilling attitude to follow rules and regulation by drivers are the primary reasons for accidents. However, drivers say that lack of preemptive measures, inadequate road facilities and pathetic design of roads immensely increased the risk of accidents. I believe that both drivers and traffic designers are mutually responsible for the rise of road tragedies.
	It is the main responsibility of traffic department to take necessary measures to control such incidents by introducing legislation for driving. Firstly, there is a need to fix the speed limit while driving in the city and outside city. Surveillance cameras should be installed on busiest parts of the city to monitor speed limit. Furthermore, new and strict rules of law should be implemented. People found guilty of breaking laws should be sentenced to jail or imposed heavy fines.
	Drivers can play a pivotal role in mitigating the traffic woes. They should be given training of driving and a need of comprehensive test that include both practical and theoretical test. This will ensure their capacity of driving and knowledge about traffic rules. In addition to this, Government should make attempts to organise seminars and workshops to increase awareness among drivers.
	To sum up, I would like to say that it is an equal responsibility of both drivers and lawmakers to take precautionary steps to avoid any injuries. There is dire need of legislation on the traffic designers end and also need to create perceptiveness among drivers.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2264-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1056-year-between-school-and-university-is-a-good-idea",
Essay 293:
	There are arguments that students who graduated from high school should have a year break before enrolling in college or university as it will give them several opportunities and advantages. However, other individuals believe that students must have a continuous education. It seems reasonable to argue that a year break between secondary and tertiary education is not a reasonable perspective.
	Primarily, it is often said that if a student decided to give himself a one year vacation before pursuing the higher education, he or she might b able to gain work experiences. Obviously, the student can use the experiences once he or she applied as a professional employee in a certain institution. This is because most of employers often seek workers who have numerous work experiences and credentials. Linked to this is the fact that every high school graduate student has encountered the pressure of studying difficult subjects such as geometry and physics. Thus, a year break will give the student a chance to indulge in his or her desired activities. Understandably, the schedule in some high schools consumes most of the students’ time, which could have been spent on relaxation or hobbies.
	Besides, the year gap could be used to travel extensively and that would be an excellent opportunity for them to gather firsthand experience about the different cultures and countries. Students who get practical job experience can learn money management and learn to appreciate the value of money. The experience gathered from job and travel often helps them to excel in their academic studies when they start their academic years in university.
	However, it cannot be denied that students may find it difficult to adjust to the lessons and topics being discussed at the primary level in college. One major reason of this is that the students could forget the knowledge they have learned during their high school days. As can be expected, in college, some professors appear to start at basic subjects, such as algebra and English, in order to help the students adapt to the level of difficulty. In addition to this, the students could be enticed to abandon their studies because they might think that the salaries in their temporary occupations are enough to supplement their financial needs. For instance, some students in the Philippines are attracted by the higher salaries offered in non-skilled jobs, which make them sacrifice their education.
	In conclusion, I am convinced that a year break must not be encouraged to every high school graduate student due to the fact that it may ruin the student’s education. It is very likely that all students will procure better jobs which offer a higher salary if they finish their education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2263-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1055-more-money-on-education-than-on-recreation-and-sports",
Essay 294:
	Almost all governments, across the globe, have a yearly budget to distribute money for various activities. I agree that governments should allocate a higher budget for education compared to recreation and sports. This can be proven by analysing, how spending more money on education can reduce unemployment rate as well as decrease crime rate and can positively enhance the people’s life standard.
	If more people are educated in a country, it is apparent that the employment rate of that nation will be high, as there are a lot of skilled employments available throughout the world. But to have many people educated, the governments should provide good education system which is affordable by the citizens. For example, as per the report published in the Week magazine during August 2015, America has very less unemployment rate as the government provides best quality education to the citizens at a very minimal fee. Thus, it is obvious that the government should focus on spending more on the education sector. The recreation and sports activities are also important for people but the education has far better importance.
	As the society has more social knowledge, the crime rate will be reduced. This is due to the fact that education creates a positive mentality among the people. For instance, as per the BBC report telecasted on January 2015, Nigeria has a crime rate which is 20 times more than the USA. Therefore it is the responsibility of the governments to ensure that the citizens are educated by providing adequate infrastructure. In addition to that, governments should even make the secondary education free and mandatory. Hence it is very clear that governments must allocate a higher budget for education. Sports and other recreation can improve people’s life standard but what benefits it can bring when the people have poverty and they are engaging in crime?
	By analysing how allocating more money for education can increase employment rate and make the earth a safer place to live, it is very important that governments should allocate a higher percent of the budget on education. It is predicted that importance is given to recreation and sports as well, but not at the cost of education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2262-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1054-people-naturally-resist-making-changes-in-their-lives",
Essay 295:
	Due to the natural reasons, people find it difficult to change the ways they live. It is quite difficult for a majority of people to alter the state of mind, the way they think and the environment they get used to. Therefore several problems can occur when they are told to do and solve their issues in easier and more decent ways. In my opinion, obvious solutions knock the door of psychologists and also family members and relatives should act in these positions. Changes in some cases are inevitable and embracing the new idea and way of life bring many opportunities and hence accepting new things are often not options, but mandatory for us.
	In modern life, people adjust to different habits and routines and then they do not tend to get involved to change their usual activities. By doing this, they decline any other offer presented by surroundings, especially when these offers are from ones that they do not like. Because of that their resistance increases in not changing. For example, when a parent asked their kid to not do disobedience or not eat chocolate too much, this kid's persistence in the matter sometimes enhances as far as parents ask. That's why the worst and most difficult of the problem is the resistance of children's unruly behaviour. If these issues are not undertaken by someone responsible and coped with the problem, its consequences stay to the rest of child's life vitally.
	New ideas, technology and changes are often for better ways of life. Not being able to grip the new idea and changes can bring personal and social problems. Parents who cannot embrace the idea of modernization and generation gaps often have bitter experience with their children. Changes in society are also natural with time and the old way life will not remain forever. New ideas often come to people with open and broader perspective. Old traditions have their importance but new customs, ideas and changes should also be accepted for the overall betterment of the society.
	To conclude, it is best to consult these overwhelming behaviours to an expert for the sake of the welfare of both the people and the society. By the help of modern psychology I do not think of a problem unsolved, and besides this is a crucial problem for a society that comprised of healthy-thinking people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2261-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1053-what-sort-of-safety-law-would-you-introduce-if-you-were-given-a-chance",
Essay 296:
	It is a fact that in many countries the government set some standards about a safe workplace, such as wearing some protection gears in the workplace. I personally support the idea as working in a safe condition is an essential fact, and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	To begin with, it is true that in certain countries, the government is concerned about the safe work environment. As injuries and accidents at work have been frequently reported, the government set some policies about safety at work, which covers so many aspects. One of the examples is that heavy industry companies should provide their workers with the appropriate safety equipment, as the risk of being injured at work is high in this industry. In another example, drivers of special vehicles such as bulldozer or forklift must have a registered certificate or a special license, as driving these vehicles requires special techniques.
	If I have the authority to set some regulations about safety, I would set these kinds of policies. Firstly, every company should make a report about health, safe and green environment in their workplace. This report should be submitted to the authority on an annual basis, and companies who fail to submit their report on time will be charged with penalties. Secondly, there would be a regulation about safety audit. The government should set some audit teams, which will inspect companies’ safety environment during their work hour. Companies with unsatisfactory audit result must be reassessed during the renewal of their business licenses. By having these two policies, it is hoped that companies will implement a safe and healthy working environment in their workplace.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree that safety at work is an important thing, as many governments have set some specific rules about it. Should I be the authorised person, I would make some safety regulations which enforce companies to make a timely safety report, and conduct safety audits.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2260-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1052-sports-and-exercises-classes-are-replaced-with-the-academic-subjects",
Essay 297:
	Sport is an important constituent of education at school and universities. However, there is a dramatic shift in this trend in some developing countries over the last few years. The authorities concerned claim that lengthy syllabus, competitive learning and studies pressure are the main hindrances that mitigate student interest to pursue in this field. I think this is not a good practice to exercise; children should provide opportunities to participate in physical activities that would help them in relaxing and developing skills such as leadership, teamwork and handling pressure.
	Sports play a pivotal role in health and could significantly contribute towards achieving others skills that are also important for a successful person. For instance, lack of these activities will make people lethargic and they will become more susceptible to diseases such as obesity and laziness. Furthermore, it is also seen that students without these activities are more hyper and violent in their attitudes, this will lead to severe problems in the society.
	Nowadays, students have to perform exceptionally well in order to compete in their peer group. That increased panic, tension and un-relaxing conditions. Therefore, exercise is a one way that can reduce their studies woes and help them to relax and reenergize for their future studies. In addition to this, students who are good in sports activities can adopt it as their future career.
	To sum up, I would like to say that eliminating sports activities from school curriculum would have dire consequences on students and society. We would less likely to produce players for our nation teams. Apart from that students' mental health negatively affect with the absence of sports.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2259-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1051-roads-are-becoming-more-congested",
Essay 298:
	Government plays a vital role in managing vehicles number and size of roads. The government can adopt measures like higher tax-rate, public awareness programmes and wider road construction to manage traffic and discourage the rapid growth in the private vehicles. Another solution to this problem is to encourage people to use public transportation by carefully managing routes. Also, small public vehicles can be replaced by bigger vehicles and cost of using public transportation should be remarkably lower than using private vehicles. Finally, implementing more effective traffic rules can have marked positive result in both minimising the growth rate of private-owned vehicles and managing traffic problems.
	Along with the government, individuals also play an important role in this context. The preventive solution that an individual can apply is to minimise the use of private-owned vehicles when not necessary. People should use public transportation services as it reduces the problem of road congestion and use of fuel as well. Encouraging friends, family and neighbours to use private-owned vehicles only when necessary can be another effective measure as well. Individuals should follow traffic rules strictly and encourage the government to adopt effective solutions.
	In conclusion, government and public both should be responsible and inhabit necessary practices. The problem can be tackled only if both sides act in their part.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2257-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1050-persuade-more-people-to-embrace-electric-cars",
Essay 299:
	From my point of view, it is undeniably essential to keep our globe safe from greenhouse gases. It is evident that cars or any gas-fueled vehicle produce these harmful gases. Something has to be done to prevent greenhouse effect and using electric cars could be a good way of preventing it.
	It can be clearly seen that gas-fueled vehicles comprise the majority of the causes of the greenhouse effect. Today, developers have discovered new electric cars that have adequate speed and are equally comfortable. Once these new, innovative cars have been fully charged, it can travel long distances with moderate speed. In spite of these cars are slightly expensive, they are undoubtedly prominent for both our health and our planet's safety. So some incentive measures to make people embrace electric cars should have taken. For this reason, people have to be introduced about how perilous these gas-fueled vehicles are. In this case, governments have a great deal of responsibility to get over that. For instance, the advertisement boards on the side of the roads are one of the optimal places to inform people. In addition, social networks or TVs could introduce the aspects of the electric cars. Furthermore, petrol is diminishing with a great acceleration. Consequently, petrol has a limited source, despite electric energy is unlimited that they can be obtained by solar or wind power. In addition, electric energy has limited wastages, but gas has a lot of wastes and one of these wastes is a threat to our lives.
	The government can fund the car producers to produce cheap electric cars and transportations. Less tax on electric cars could also be an effective solution as it would arrest more people to purchase them.
	To sum up, gas-fueled cars have a lot of drawbacks in terms of its fumes and environmental damage, although there is no marked disadvantage that can threaten our lives in electric cars. Funding, less tax and advertisement can attract more people to use this sort of cars.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2256-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1049-uniform-at-school-is-unnecessary-and-should-be-banned",
Essay 300:
	Uniform is a mandatory constituent of schools in most of the countries and children are obligated to wear uniforms during school hours. Some people argue that children should have a freedom to dress up according to their own preference. However, others claim that uniform at schools is a symbol of unity among students and a way to disregard discrimination as well. I strongly believe that uniform has social and ethical significance on children and should be a mandatory part of their education.
	There is no doubt that uniform has substantial impacts on children. It gives them a feeling that they belong to the same group of people, thus help in creating stronger bonding with each other. Furthermore, uniform eliminates the element of discrimination among students, as both rich and poor students are obligated to dress in the same way. People on the public places can easily distinguish the school children and this offers some benefits.
	However, allowing others dresses than uniform could deteriorate the situation. This would lead to severe problems such as inferiority complex, shattering confidence and other social issues and that have detrimental effects on children's mind. In addition to this, buying new clothes would be an additional expense that could be very difficult for poor people to fulfil.
	To draw the conclusion, I would like to say that uniform is an essential part of schooling and should not be neglected at any cost. It gives them the impression that they belong to the same family and this makes them thrive in their studies and sports. Banning uniform is not a healthy activity and could leave bad effects in children attitudes.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2255-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1048-many-people-strive-to-maintain-a-successful-career-and-happy-family",
Essay 301:
	Nowadays, people are highly ambitious towards their career while maintaining their healthy lifestyle. There is no doubt that it is not an easy task and it required lots of efforts and will-power.  Therefore, this has led to various issues such as lack of attention in home chores, avoiding responsibilities etc. However, keeping a balance between office and home life could dramatically change the situation.
	The problems arise when people start avoiding taking interest for home and they start focusing mainly on their career growth. By this I mean that their primary focus of interest shifted from home to office work. Furthermore, lack of attention towards family could create isolation in the family that will have dire consequences on children. The competitive job responsibilities and enhanced working time are also contributing to the lack of attention many people put for their family.
	However, sharing responsibilities, cooperating with each other would definitely help in these circumstances. The best possible solution is to make a balance in their lives by giving proper time and attentions on both sides. Cooperation and adjustment within family members would leave an undeniable impression on their lives. Moreover, by dividing responsibilities and sharing tasks will ensure a smooth running of matters. Women can also play a pivotal role by supporting their husbands in different aspects of life. Their participation and interest is a key for happy life.
	To sum up, I would like to say that great achievements always come with sacrifices. However, by getting support from family and peer group help in getting the desired result. Therefore, individuals should keep striving for bright future while continuing happy and healthy relations at home.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2254-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1047-society-governed-by-female-leaders-will-be-more-peaceful",
Essay 302:
	Most of the countries in the world are led by men, only a few countries are governed by women. I personally think that whether a government or a leadership brings violence or peace has nothing to do with the gender of the leader.
	It is generally believed that women have gentler personality than men in the way they act. But, it does not guarantee that if a woman leads a country or a society, they can prevent conflicts, clash or violence from happening because a leader is not the only party causing or triggering conflicts. In running her government and taking a decision or a policy, a female leader cooperates with and discusses a lot with many other parties so I do not think that her mother figure will come first in dealing with various complicated problems her government is facing. Instead, she can not give priority to her feminine feeling (caring, loving, affecting, etc) in policy making. A leader, either female or male, needs to take action in accordance with the situation. That is why I believe that the gender of a leader makes no difference in this issue. Many countries like Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan were governed by female leaders and yet the conflict and violence increased during their time and this is a clear indication that a female leader cannot guarantee and peaceful society.
	Moreover, conflicts often happen because of inability or bad leadership skill of a leader in running his or her leadership. In any country, the incapability of leaders, regardless of their gender, causes many problems leading to the unsatisfactory of people and the decrease in people’s trust level to the government, both of which are likely to result in chaos, clash, and conflict. I am convinced that everyone will agree that capability and leadership skill have nothing to do with gender. It is ridiculous to judge that men have a better capability in leading an organisation than women, or vice versa. Besides, the success and the failure of an organisation or a government are determined not only by the leader but also the staffs and the cabinet. No matter how capable the leader is, he or she will not be able to execute his or her government programs to bring prosperity for his or her people and to satisfy them if he or she does not have a good team.
	In conclusion, the ability of a country to avoid and prevent conflict and violence depends on the capability of the leader, regardless of gender, to run the country. It is not wise to say that men with their masculinity bring violence and none can guarantee that women with their femininity will be able to bring peace for people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2253-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1046-both-travelers-and-business-people-must-have-the-same-attitude-to-local-people",
Essay 303:
	There has been a significant increase in travelling over the last few years.  People tend to travel for the sake of entertainment, exploration and business activities. Some people argue that travellers should obey and respect about religious beliefs and tradition of the countries they visited. Others claim that visitors are not bound to practice the local people beliefs and should have the independence to live according to their own set of rules. I strongly believe that foreigners must act accordingly to the traits and norms of visiting country.
	It is commonly seen that some of the travellers do not care about others sentiments and they like to perform their own rituals openly in public places. They claim that it is permissible in free and open society. However, this could have detrimental effects as some people could act violently and can create riots in a society.
	On the other side, it is our moral and ethical duty to respect others religions. Being as a visitor one has to follow the customs, traditions and traits of the destination country. This will help them in knowing about cultures and others traits of the society. This will also leave a positive message to the local people.
	To conclude, I would like to say that tourists represent their country and their acts and behaviour can help in developing their good image to outside world. Therefore, travellers and business people should mould themselves according to place and situation; it is also a natural phenomenon that ‘gives respect take respect’.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2252-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1045-technology-affected-the-types-of-relationships-people-make",
Essay 304:
	Today, more than ever, when it comes to the issue of determining whether or not advances in technology affect the types of relationship individual make a plethora of perspective have been put forward. The expansion of modern means of communication is the ongoing debate which triggers so much controversy. This issue is fiercely criticised by some experts who are on the view that they pose a direct threat to social lives and may come at the expense of a severe social isolation and sedentary lifestyle. Others realise the significance of these means of communications and stick to the idea that these types of relationship are integral parts of interpersonal communication. Consequently, they are regarded as worthwhile. Nevertheless, as far as I am concerned, the opinion put forth by the second group is more logical. In the following paragraphs, I will shed light on my own attitudes for this issue.
	To begin with, in the past, communication among people looked bleak. People used to meet and make an appointment to see each other and in according to the fact that communities had busy people and they seem doomed to have far-reaching communication.
	In the second place, modern means of communication command people’s attention. They are the fastest and easiest way of togetherness. People are at the mercy of virtual world to have opportunities to get in touch with others even in the remotest part of the world which contributes to saving their time and hanging out every moment. This issue questions the need to have face to face interactions.
	To cut a long story short, for better or worse, we live in a world which is surrounded by computers, cell phones on an unprecedented scale with which people spend their spare time. The truth is that, in this hectic lifestyle, the responsibility of real-time conversations, visualisation of each other, information exchange which enables individual to share a variety of information such as activities, events, interests, ideas falls on these ways of communication. Thanks to tremendous advances in technology.
	Last but not least, emails and messages make people more comfortable which pave the way for explaining their feeling without shyness and give them a sense of absolute confidence, also they are the backbone of introducing friends among youth which increase their social friendship.
	In conclusion, all in all, rather than devoting a great deal of time and energy solely in terms of face to face interaction, the trend today is toward using modern means of communication to get  in touch with others. The pivotal role these ways of communication performed in interpersonal communication is hard to ignore. However, many people fail to appreciate it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2251-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1044-modern-medical-science-has-made-it-possible-to-combat-many-diseases",
Essay 305:
	Modern medicine and developments in medical science have solved the impossible task of conquering many fatal diseases. Therefore people attain the relief of long, happy and painless lives. Some of the numerous outcomes of this relief are rescue from long-term and painful anxieties, accumulation of concentration on subjects that are usually very difficult to do it under painful circumstances and more significantly the importance of healthy decision-making. Apart from that long accumulated experience of older people are helpful for developing a better society.
	Firstly, the anxiety of pain absorbs the energy of life in people. Thus individuals with diseases spread this weakness to their environment and also they cannot help it. From the other way, it is almost impossible to illustrate enough attempts and pay sufficient attention to either the issues of family and friends or problems and tasks of their jobs as their other fellows. For example, if there is an occupation takes place like job trips, family organisations, they find it difficult adjust to the mood of other members of family and friends.
	However, their families try to make them as happy as possible. But these problems have been transcended by appropriate treatments and ill people do not need to feel awful anymore. Nevertheless the most difficult period in life, in my opinion, is ill time. Because illness compels people to change their way of thinking and decision-making, in some cases some people try to even suicide because of the pain. It is the heartbreaking part of the story.
	Although, today with the cooperation of psychologists and doctors most cases of trauma and suicide can be handled. And many diseases with proper medications and operations can be recovered. The experience of older people who live longer can be useful for the new generation and professionals like teachers, politicians, mathematicians, physicists and social workers can contribute more to the world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2250-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1043-television-cannot-replace-the-book-as-a-learning-tool",
Essay 306:
	The main reason of poor education quality among children nowadays is that they spend a lot of  their time watching television programmes and do things that are remotely connected to quality education. I completely agree with the statement that television cannot replace the book as a learning tool as it is far less educative and far more addictive.
	Firstly, television cannot replace books as learning materials owing to the fact that children often misuse television in the disappearance of parents. For instance, educative programs are less attractive than the cartoon shows and other programs children prefer to watch. While there are lots of educative and suitable programs, it is not unusual that a child would prefer to watch programs that entertain more than educating.
	Another reason television is not as suitable as a book because when children learn through television then their focus will be on audio-visual presentation, not in learning. Whereas if they follow books then they focus on books and the lessons it offers.
	It is often heard that many children watch TV for long hours and that is detrimental to their health. Television programs are addictive and many children do not concentrate on other important things like study or outdoor activity when they become addicted to watching TV programs.
	Finally, television cannot replace the book as learning tool due to television might be a tool that would be wastage of time.  However, if children spend more time in reading books there is no chance of wastage of time. The primary focus of television is entertaining people while books are considered as the cornerstone of knowledge and wisdom.
	To conclusion, although television is more entertaining than books, it cannot become a great tool for education as books are for children. The book is still the most appropriate learning tool and the television can never replace it terms of child’s education.
Essay 307:
	In the current world, visual media has a huge presence across the globe. Television is being widely used as a supplement for education by students. In my opinion, books can never be replaced by television as a means of learning gadget. This can be proven by analysing how books have the advantage that they can focus on a particular subject deeply as well as provide time flexibility.
	It is apparent that a particular book focuses on a specific subject. As most of the programs in the television are sponsored by an organisation, advertisement runs at regular intervals between the programs the people watch. In the case of books, advertisements are very rare and thus there are limited distractions on learning a subject. Moreover, we can turn back the pages we have covered, if any doubt arises reading the further topics. As per the report released on 25th September 2015, by the Week magazine, 90% of the school students prefer books over the television for educational purposes. Thus books have an edge over television. Television programmes are aimed to entertain people when there are very few educative channels for students. Moreover, there is no surety that a student would spend his time in front of the TV productively.
	Another important advantage books have is the ability of the readers to choose the time to read as per their convenience. It is a fact that some students like to read in the early morning while some others in the evening, so that they have maximum concentration. But in case of television, unless we have digital storage devices like DVD or USB drive; it is not possible to play as we need. Furthermore, most of the television programmes have a schedule and the students need to be punctual in case they need to attend it. It is obvious that book gives the users to plan their time as per their wish.
	 As a conclusion, it is obvious that books have an advantage over television, as it provides deeper concentration on the subjects and better time management. It is predicted that a few subjects, which requires visual effect to understand, may choose television as a mean of the learning tool.
Essay 308:
	Television is an inseparable thing for the new generation today. The advancement in the television industry has changed the way man lives today by bringing him every event that is happening around the world and providing all kinds of entertainment to watch from home. For better or worse people are addicted to television programs and spend a great deal of time watching it.
	The impact of television on children is a matter of worry for many, especially for parents, as children are the most passionate about televisions today. Unlike a generation ago, where children were spending their time reading books or doing outdoor activities that help them in their personal, intellectual and physical development, today's children are more preferred to sit at home and relax watching their favourite television channel will definitely have an advert impact on their development. Television can bring in educational programs for children but it cannot replace the tradition way of studying from books!
	Books are subject specific and have a great amount of well-focused information for children to study. Apart from teaching specific subjects, it also helps children to learn to read, write and make decisions. On the other hand, television programmes to teach the same subject will not bring in these benefits and make the children a lazy learner. Moreover, children are not keen to watch such educational programs. They are more interested in watching sports, movies and cartoons which may not have educational concepts but more of an entertainment factors.
	Obviously, the more time children spend on television is the less time they get for studying from books and thus impact the quality of their education. This would remain as a challenge for today's parents, teachers and society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2249-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1042-spending-money-on-space-exploration-is-a-complete-waste",
Essay 309:
	Many developing and developed countries are spending huge amounts of money on space exploration. They are keenly interested in finding out the existence of life on galaxies and stars. This is a lengthy process, which required huge funds and time. People argue that space exploration is a waste of time and money. This amount should be spent on other problems. I believe that helping and improving living standard of poor nations is the best way to use the money.
	Rich nations play a pivotal role in bringing change and prosperity for poor nations. Developing countries such as Africa, Syria etc. have serious problems in health, education and employment sectors. That could only be solved with the help of developed nations. Many countries are giving financial aids and others are investing directly in order to solve and mitigate the woes of peoples and received respect and gratitude in this regard.
	However, discovering unresolved mysteries is a real challenge for the scientist. Many countries are funding research centres to unfold hidden mysteries of the world. This is time consuming and lengthy work. Scientists are in search of natural resources that are less in quantity on earth. Their success could substantially change the world and will open a new horizon of success.
	To conclude, I believe that it is an ethical and moral responsibility of nations to eradicate problems in their neighbouring countries. Meanwhile, research on space exploration should be continued until we get desired results. It is a time-consuming process but it will leave undeniable benefits on people lives in case of success.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2248-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1041-some-people-think-that-foreign-visitors-should-be-charged-more",
Essay 310:
	The tourism industry has flourished significantly over the last few years. Large numbers of people travel around the globe, which brings money and prosperity to the visiting country. Some people argue that tourists create lots of pollution by throwing garbage which required extra effort and money to clean. Thus should be charged more. However, others state that they bring business to the country and should charge nominally. I believe that foreign visitors help native peoples in order to run their business by using their services.
	Tourists play a pivotal role in strengthening the economy of the destination country. Countries such as Malaysia and Singapore mainly depend on their tourism industry. They are spending a huge amount of money to preserve their historical places. That will attract millions of tourists to travel these countries every year. In addition to this, tourist used local services such as hotels, restaurant, clothes and health facilities. This helped local peoples to run their business smoothly.
	However, tourists also bring waste and diseases with themselves. This could severely harm the health of local peoples. For example, the epidemic of Malaysia was due to a foreign visitor. Furthermore, tourists are lethargic and do not care about cleaning, and would like to throw garbage and other waste materials anywhere they want. This required extra cost to clean and preserve the beauty of the surrounding nature.
	In conclusion, I believe that we should welcome tourist whole-heartedly and let them enjoy their holidays economically. This would leave positive impression on their mind and a reason to visit the place again.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2247-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1040-universities-should-allocate-the-same-amount-of-money-to-their-sport-activities",
Essay 311:
	It is often seen that universities provide the best education to their students and prepare them as the ideal citizens of the nation. They also focus on physical health by offering them various sports facilities. Some people argue that sports are equally important and must have the same allocation of funds as university libraries. However, others state that main aptitude of educational institutions is to provide lofty education and must invest handsome amount for the betterment of libraries. I agree to some extent that role of  the library is far more important than sports activities.
	It is very important to have good physical education for students. It will not only improve their health but also helped them in developing skills such as teamwork, handling pressure under tensed situations etc. Therefore, it is required by the universities to spend on this constituent. Furthermore, nowadays there is too much study pressure on students. In order to relax and re-energise, such activities should be provided at a regular interval.
	Library is an essential part of every educational institution. Large numbers of students rely on libraries to complete their assignments, research works and final projects. It shows that existence of a university is incomplete without having one or more libraries in it. Thus, a huge amount should be invested in libraries to improve its books catalogue.  Latest books, journals and other reference materials should be incorporated in libraries to facilitate its users.
	To sum up, I would like to say that spending time in libraries is more worthful and has lofty values than playing. Universities must upgrade their libraries accordance with technological advancement without considering the cost so that numerous benefits could be taken out.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2246-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1039-people-do-not-appreciate-the-value-of-money-anymore",
Essay 312:
	It is true that the motive of people who do shopping has changed these days. Though I agree with the opinion that they do not value the worth of money, not all individuals are alike. In this essay, I will support my stand by showing that only till a certain age people are not able to understand the value of money.
	There are at least few people who are really shopping for needs. For instance, almost all of the family men and women analyse their requirements, income they earn and put a monthly budget. In this case, since they have to run their families and take care of their wants of everyone in the family like parents and children, they should definitely adhere to their budget and run the family. Be it a shopping from clothes or groceries or any other commodity arises only out of the dire need for it.
	On the other side, I also accept that number of citizens who has taken up shopping as a hobby has increased in the recent past. The poor parenting is the root cause of this phenomenon. It is quite natural that the middle-class parents pamper their children and get things done beyond their limit. As a result, the children do not have an opportunity to analyse the cost. Consequently, when this child grows up in the society, the shopping mentality remains the same. Bothering less about the need and the prize of the product, they do shopping.
	It should also be noted that shopping as a leisure activity remains only till a certain age limit. This new form of hobby has cropped up only among youngsters. This is proved by the recent survey on the shopping habits of men and women. Till the individuals strive hard to earn each penny, they will never ever realise the worth of it. Once they start earning, they could analyse the need and cost of the product they buy.
	After analysing the development it is not hard to see that shopping habits have changed in the recent decades and it is also sure that every individual will not get attracted to materialistic life after a certain age since they get matured enough to consider the necessity and cost of the products more than anything.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2245-industry-to-replace-its-experienced-but-old-workers",
Essay 313:
	It is true that a recent trend of replacing the experienced old workers with young talents has cropped up in every industry. In my opinion, not all the old workers should be replaced by young individuals.
	Experienced employees of every industry should be considered as valuable assets. This is because their experience in the company would be definitely proportional to their loyalty and gratitude towards the employers which is an added advantage. Such Emotionally bonded employees would work sincerely for the development of the company. This is not all; their total experience could never be replaced by anything which implies that they would have sound practical knowledge. Therefore it is always better for the businesses to retain their older employees in spite of recruiting freshers.
	On the other hand, fresh graduates are the need of the hour to make the industry sustain in the prevailing high competition. The world has become revolutionised with the advancements in technology and thus a people with cutting edge technical skills are needed in every industry for its economic growth.
	Contrarily, it is not a wise decision to fire the old and experienced employees considering age as the only factor. Their experience should be valued, although they might not be aware of updated technologies. There would be problems wherein freshers could find difficulty. In this case, they certainly need guidance. Why can’t every industry use their senior employees as a mentor to train fresh trainees?
	It should also be taken into consideration that an industry should be ruthless at times, in my opinion, to make its progress consistent. So if work like marketing and sales involves an old aged employee who is really getting weak, then the wisest decision would be to replace him or her with a young and energetic person. It is not that the older one should be fired but can be used as a resource person for the industry.
	To conclude, both old and young employees are the prerequisites for a healthy work- environment. There should be a mutual sharing of knowledge and skills for the upliftment of the industry. But, few people whose age is an issue for their work could be replaced with young individuals and not all.
Essay 314:
	To what extent do you agree or disagree?
	Having an efficient workforce has always been one of the most complicated issues faced by industries and companies all around the world. Thus, it is quite controversial whether older experienced workers should be substituted with younger ones. Since strong arguments exist in support of both notions, both of them should be discussed carefully before any conclusion is drawn. However, my personal opinion is that a younger workforce for industry is more important.
	On the one hand, old workers can contribute vital benefits to the industry due to their sufficient experience in the sector. The first and foremost benefit obtained from old workers is that they know the existing system of the industry quite well. Regarding powerful and weak sides of the industry, they can decide solutions in the most convenient and efficient ways. Furthermore, industries should appreciate their work experience and utilise their knowledge comprehensively in order to maximize the profit rate.
	On all accounts, although older workers have sufficient experiences, industries should promote more young workers in order to acquire accomplishments. As far as I am concerned, we should inspire the young generation, because we should not forget that they are builders of our future life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2241-government-should-provide-home-to-those-who-cannot-afford-it",
Essay 315:
	While many people have abundant luxuries, others suffer from unimaginable poverty and lack the basic human needs like food and shelter. Home is one of the five most fundamental needs for every human and government of a country should try in every way possible to make sure that there is no homeless in the country.
	From the very ancient time till today, people’s need for a safe place to live in is considered to be a very fundamental need. This is how the concept of home has emerged and only homeless people can understand the sufferings of not having a shelter. Poor people who cannot manage a decent meal every day often live under the open sky. This is inhuman and the government of a country has a natural obligation to ensure the living places for people. When a government has the responsibility to ensure economic development, infrastructure development, education, roads and highway, protecting people from criminals why providing such a basic need like home for homeless people is in a debate? A huge amount of money spent on research every year and what good those research could bring to the citizens of a country when there are large numbers of people who are living without any shelter?
	Natural calamities like flood, tsunami and earthquake make many people homeless and the national and international supports then should always keep the shelter in priority for such victims. War is still a curse in the world we live in and because of that a great number of people are forced to leave their houses and become homeless. Should not rich nations, the government of the country and capable individuals raise their helping hands to ensure the shelter of homeless people? The answer is always yes. That’s what makes us human. When we live in a luxurious building, many others are sleeping beside the pavement. Should not a government be considered a failure when they would spend millions of dollars for space research while there would be thousands of people homeless in the country?
	Homeless people would unsurprisingly get involved in crimes and the society would face more trouble controlling them. So from this perspective, a government should focus on ensuring homes for every family. In fact, the loan, mortgage and subsidiary system we notice in many developed countries like the UK and the USA are aimed to help people to have their own home.   
	To conclude, a living place is one of the most basic needs of every human being and the government of a country should always take initiatives to make sure that there are no homeless people in the country. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2238-living-in-big-cities-is-bad-for-peoples-health",
Essay 316:
	It is perceived by many that metropolitan cities are ominous for our well-being as opposed to living in rural areas. While the former offers a hectic lifestyle and have much more pollution, the latter grants a tranquil and favourable environment for our physical and psychological benefits. I completely agree with this viewpoint for several reasons.
	Firstly, almost all big cities have an intolerable level of air, sound and environmental pollutions primarily due to the increasing number of vehicles, carbon emission, wastages of industries, metro facilities and amenities for a modern lifestyle. On top of that, the population density in big cities is much higher, and it creates an unhealthy living standard in many parts. Finally, people in big cities often rely on processed food as they are busy. This unhealthy food habit, along with pollution, emerges as a serious threat to their health in the long run.  For instance, more than 60 per cent of school students in large municipalities in developing countries are exposed to a higher level of air and sound pollutions and eat junk food which severely affects their physical and mental health.
	Secondly, it is generally known that stresses in metropolises are considerably higher due to many factors. One of the main factors is the long working hours. Secondly, living costs in big cities are high. Although people earn higher in metro areas, their salaries, oftentimes, do not meet their needs and expectations, which adversely impact their psychology. Long working hours combined with severe traffic jam consume their time and they have little time left to spend with their families.
	To conclude, it is inevitable that pollution, stresses and unhealthy food jeopardize people’s health in big cities, and this is why it is justified to state that living in large cities is damaging for people's well-being.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2236-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1035-some-people-believe-that-exploring-outer-space-is-important",
Essay 317:
	First and foremost, poverty could be a significant factor why space research should be given less priority. It is generally seen thousands of people everyday starve or lack from very basic human needs. A large number of people in the world are still struggling to find foods, clothes, medicines etc. and the amount of money we are spending just to reach further in the space or to know more is overwhelming. So many people consider space research as an unnecessary activity while they focus on eliminating more pressing problems are living in. Fatal diseases could be another burning problem that needs more research and prevention. So money and manpower used for space exploration are not justified to many.
	There are some groups who are in favour of spending more money to explore outer space for the  improvement of human knowledge, in spite of views discussed above regarding waste of money that are valid reasons for spending money for the exploring outer space. These groups of people believe that space exploration is required for our own benefits: to search for other intelligent species, to understand the universe, to find more resources for human or even to find a suitable place in another planet for human to live. They believe that wars, crime and corruptions are causing more problems and costing more than the outer space exploration. They feel that we should understand the model of our universe and learn the history of it for the greater good of human.    
	In summary, undoubtedly, spending a portion of the budget to explore outer space should be allowed; however, as far as I am concerned, governments should take more responsibilities to improve nations and ensure basic human needs before spending too much on outer world research.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2235-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1034-tourism-is-becoming-increasingly-important-as-a-source-of-revenue",
Essay 318:
	It is an undeniable fact that tourist spots in every country have become more popular and have so many visitors. The development of tourism has so many benefits, such as more income from tourists and exposure of culture, although the drawbacks of this development cannot be ignored. This essay discusses the drawbacks of tourism for such countries followed by relevant examples. I agree that the disadvantages of the tourism should be handled prudently to lessen its adverse effects on a country.
	Firstly, tourism activities can threaten the traditional culture of a country. Local people tend to imitate the cultures that are brought by the tourists from their home countries. Based on a cultural research conducted in Indonesia last year, local people stated that their traditional cultures are not suitable to the modern era, whereas the cultures brought by tourists to their country are more suitable and modern. For example, more local people like wearing modern clothes rather than traditional one as well as they follow more modern dances than the traditional one.
	Secondly, tourism can cause the bad effect to the environment. Take littering cases as an example. It is irrefutable fact that so many tourists ignore the policy about rubbish. Bali as a tourism destination, besides getting awards because of the successful tourism, this city is well-known for the rubbish as well. The government face the difficulty in handling this littering problem because the increasing number of tourists each year. Then, the local people get the effect to their environment, such as land pollution, flood, and air pollution because of the waste.
	On the other hand, tourism can increase the national government income from tourists' visa and local people get the work-field as well as the chance to learn other cultures. For instance, local people can build home stay area for tourist and gain income from that business. It can reduce the number of unemployment people and grow knowledge of local people about tourists' language.
	Based on the previous explanation, we can conclude that tourism will be the threat for local cultures and environment, even though it is good for gaining income for government and local people as well as create a chance for local people to have job and knowledge.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2234-most-important-element-of-a-perfect-society-in-the-modern-world",
Essay 319:
	Most people in the world have a dream to live in an ideal society and lead a happy and meaningful life. However, they do not have the same idea about what the perfect society would look like. I personally think that there are three indicators that can measure the perfection of a society in the modern world: social value, proper infrastructure and employment opportunity. This essay discusses these factors and the ways to achieve that ideal society followed by the examples.
	Firstly, social value and social bonding among people is the most important aspect of a perfect society. In a society where people have a strong bonding and obey the social norms tend to lead a better life. Society is formed with many families. If the family members are close and have a better relationship, they would form a better society. A perfect society must have people with human quality and good social behaviours.
	Secondly, having good infrastructures and services can be one of the requirements of a perfect society. People need the infrastructures and public services to fulfil their necessity. Take people living in Melbourne as an example. Melbourne is claimed as a most livable city in the world and the people can be classified to live in a perfect society. This country has so many modern infrastructures, for example, modern public health centre, school, bus stop, and others as well as good services in the airport, local government office, etc. This ideal condition can be achieved if the people pay the tax regularly and obey the rules. The tax payment becomes a resource to build good and complete facilities for society. Furthermore, if the society obeys the regulation, they will not have problems with the services of people.
	Thirdly, an ideal society needs sufficient job fields to work in. People can fulfil their needs by having a good salary from their work and have a good career in the future.  For example, people in Los Angeles spend most their time for working and have a good financial condition. This situation can be created by the society if people can be an entrepreneur. By being an entrepreneur, they can create new work fields for others and reduce the number of unemployed people.
	In conclusion, a perfect society has to have good infrastructures and services as well as sufficient job vacancy. Then, this situation can be built by paying tax, obeying the policy, and creating the work-fields by entrepreneurs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2233-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1032-companies-are-allowing-employees-to-work-at-home",
Essay 320:
	With the advent of the computer and the widespread use of the internet, people have changed the way they perform everyday tasks. An increasing number of corporations believe in letting employees work full-time or part-time from home and thousands of people are doing freelancing to earn their livings. The following essay will discuss the pros and cons sides over this change.
	On the contrary, imagine that there is no one looking over your shoulder and enforcing strict hours and because of that you may feel tempted to work endlessly. That can strongly influence your working effectively.  Therefore, there are other issues emerged that employees can't get along well with others since everyone just concentrating on their missions and it's easy to be overlooked.
	Nevertheless, other people propose that the argument above is merely a one-sided story, by working at home you save on many hidden costs associated with going to work. These include costs of commuting, car purchasing, fuel costs, and parking spots as well. Moreover, flexible time and comfortable workplace provides employees more inspirations and creatively, since thinking out of the box is essential for those who work in advertising companies, IT firms and in other fields of works that require creativity. Without the stresses and strict monitoring from the office, working independently in their own preferred environment at their own pace, professionals are often a lot happier and a lot more productive.
	In conclusion, it depends on companies current situations to consider whether to allow employees work from home or not. For my view, as a designer, I prefer to work from home since it gives me more inspirations and freedom.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2232-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1031-fathers-stay-at-home-while-mothers-go-out-to-work",
Essay 321:
	It is true that nowadays more men are looking after their children at home while more women have become responsible for the family’s financial aspects. There are many reasons for this, and I believe that it is a negative trend.
	The main reason for this phenomenon is related to social factors. By this, I mean that the equality between male and female in the modern society has opened the door for more women to gain qualifications and to get good opportunities at work. For illustration, women who work as a nurse or a doctor receive a large sum of money compared to men who work in other fields. These reveals a structure change in gender roles in the family and at work. Another cause for more men to do housework is the economic crisis of present era. Financial problems inside the family force parents to going out and looking for a job to be able to cover the living cost.
	In my opinion, this is completely contrary development. Firstly, in many cultures men are considered to be the breadwinner for the family and women should do the upbringing of children. Secondly, kids should stay longer with their mother; this is what is suggested by researchers in a recent study. They have approved that children who left their first five years for a long time deteriorated at school, later on, suffer mental stress than youngsters whose mothers stay at home to look after them.
	In conclusion, fathers’ position in the family has significantly changed due to many reasons, and I believe that it is a totally unacceptable development.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2231-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1030-what-has-been-the-most-significant-transportation-innovation",
Essay 322:
	From my point of view, new discoveries cannot be limited; in particular, new innovative technological devices have increased and being developed every day. Transportation is one of the most important discoveries in the world and has made it possible to have a modern world. In my opinion train is the most significant innovation in the past 2 centuries in the transportation field.
	Transportation has been a prominent part of humankind and the demand for new and more comfortable vehicles made people discover life-enhancing transportation innovations. Over the past 200 years, transportation has been reformed from ordinary trains to more complicated and developed magnetic trains. In my opinion, all vehicles such as cars, trains, airplanes or ships have their own importance for people. Consequently, cars are undoubtedly predominant in our daily life as these vehicles are comfortable and have adequate speed. Plains or ships comprise the majority in the transportation of loads. Furthermore, travelling to short-distanced places is more optimal by trains. So, those vehicles are specialised in particular areas.
	From my perspective, the most remarkable transportation vehicle which is has specialised in its area is the train. In particular, fast trains of modern days. These trains have been discovered by Chinese engineers and are spreading around the world and are being utilised by many other countries. The advantage of these trains is that they are too fast. Also, it can be clearly understood from its name which is ‘fast train’. That train's speed makes it easier to travel between places without wasting time. And developers are trying to discover a new magnetic train which can travel faster in the future.
	To sum up, humankind was always in search for new innovations and transportation discoveries have changed over the past 2 centuries and fast trains are the most significant innovations in my opinion.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2230-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1029-only-way-to-guarantee-a-good-job-is-to-complete-university-education",
Essay 323:
	Decent employment is a necessity to lead a standard life for everyone. In the employment market, many people keep on various rules and cultures. The concept of a modern job has been on its transformation stage. Though many people express their opinion as it is better to start the job after school education, my two cents is the better employment opportunities turn up to the university graduation holders.
	One obvious reason is that critical skilled jobs such as medicine and information technology call for excellent academic backgrounds. To be more precise vast scientific and technological understanding is necessary for the betterment of these atypical jobs. University educations cater to the needs of these job requirements. Needless to say, only university graduates bring in these kinds of job skills go by the theoretical and practical curriculum. Over and above, advanced educations facilitate to not only horn the pupil's skills but also enlighten them in many ways. Graduates from Harvard and Cambridge universities are the hot ticket in the contemporary job market is the best epitome.
	Next, most of the countries public administration departments prefer to work with university graduates than school dropouts. In other words, graduation is the basic criterion for civil service jobs of most of the nations including the third world. It is a gospel truth that, well-informed people can easily break the deadlock of many public issues than others. It definitely helps to save money and resources of countries in many ways. So, the hand full of jobs with the handsome amount of money waiting for the university graduates around the world. Indian administrative service applicants’ basic qualification is mentioned as any graduation from the university is the best example.
	On the other hand, an army of people argues that the early works starts get better experiences in job settings. Perhaps it may be true to some degree but, unskilled workers do not have much demand in the job market. They really need to pull their socks up to find a good employment opportunity in existing word.
	Put it in a nutshell, the more training we achieved the less unemployed we are. The better employment opportunities are always for the well informed and university holders. A good education assures decent jobs in private and public work settings. So, practising this rule gives several folds positive result than just early starts work concept.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2228-advantages-of-learning-a-foreign-language-at-primary-school",
Essay 324:
	We live in an advanced and globalised world which necessitates that all people must learn a foreign language to cope with the modern trend. The optimum age for learning a new language is a matter of public debate which in my opinion is better to start as early as possible as the advantages of it are far more than the disadvantages.
	On one hand, the main disadvantages of teaching children another language at primary school are that - firstly, it could affect their ability to learn their mother tongue properly and they might get confused by learning many different languages with different grammar and pronunciation at the same time. Secondly, it could be a waste of their study time which could be spent on learning core subjects such as mathematics, sciences, technology etc. Finally, the learning of foreign language adds more loads on these young kids and takes some of their fun time.
	On the other hand knowing a foreign language at a young age is easier and need less time than learning at an older age. The children could pick up the pronunciation more easily as they learn it sub-consciously. Also, they learn with no shy and talk freely without any fear of making mistakes. Moreover teaching young children foreign language has a positive impact on their personality as it broadens their horizon and improves their social skills in dealing with foreign people and exposing them a wide range of cultures. Furthermore they will benefit from knowing a foreign language in their upcoming studies and work career as well, and still, they could find learning new language enjoyable for example: use some games and illustration for them as a teaching method.
	In conclusion, learning, an international language is demanding skill that I think it should be starting at primary school as the benefits outweigh the drawbacks.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2227-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1027-female-leadership-can-be-considered-as-a-better-option",
Essay 325:
	Peace and prosperity are not bound to gender and in fact, they are connected to the qualities that leaders possess. Therefore, I contradict with the given idea that females are better to lead the world than males.
	History tells us that males have been better leaders in term of their ruling style and devotion. To judge the state of peace, discrimination between genders is unjust as world’s history is flooded with examples where men leadership lessened chaos around the globe for example in the time of empire system. The given opinion totally has a conflict to what we have today. Countries with least rate of brutality, cruelty and violence such as Sweden and Switzerland are ruled by male governors. The United Kingdom is run by Queen which also has maintained a good prosperity within the state. Again, we have noticed considerable violence and corruptions under the female government in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh!
	World’s peace is most injured by the negative use of nuclear technology, differences in religion, poverty and crime rates etc. If a leader gets good control of such conflicting issues, then regardless of gender, peace would prevail worldwide. Maintenance of peace is influenced by making effective foreign relation policies, eliminating poverty, strengthening funding for needy nations and avoiding war. These are real duties of a leader which men women both can do.
	Hence, I totally disagree with the idea of relating peace to the gender of a leader. Both men and women should be given equal chances to lead the world. It is just a general rule to be followed that those who desire peace, deserve to be seated in authoritative positions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2226-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1026-spending-a-lot-on-celebrations-is-just-a-waste-of-money",
Essay 326:
	In the current world, most of the people like to celebrate any special occasion by inviting a lot of people. The discussion that throwing too much money to hold parties like birthday, marriage or any other special event is a debatable one, with strong logics provided by the supporters of both the views.
	On the other hand, some people believe that it is not right to spend a huge amount money on personal celebrations as there are a lot of people across the globe under starvation. For example, in most of the African countries, many people do not even have food to eat for a single meal a day. In case, the money spent on celebration can be sent to the people who are really in need, definitely, a lot of life can be saved. Hence, it is clear why a few individuals refute with high spending parties.
	Considering the memories of special occasions as well as starvation, spending much money for parties has been supported and refuted by many. Even though memories of some special events are important, saving human life from starvation is more important. Hence, in my opinion, it is necessary to cut down the spending on parties and spend that money for the poor people’s food.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2225-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1025-how-do-movies-and-tv-affect-us",
Essay 327:
	There has been tremendous growth of entertainment media over the last few years. Media influenced numerous people and it becomes an essential part of their life. Some people argue that media is spoiling youngster badly due to the severe violence that is being used on TV programmes and films. However, others state that it keeps us updated with the latest news and a source of entertainment for many. I strongly believe that media has undeniable benefits on people lives.
	Media play a vital role in easing our stress and tension. Nowadays people are busy in their hectic routine work, they get very less time for recreational activities. Movies and television provide best sources of entertainment and help us to become refreshed and informed, relaxed and energetic for our future work. In addition to this television also provide news and other informative programs which create awareness and enhance our knowledge.
	However, youngsters are negatively affected by the violence and aggression shown in movies and dramas. They have become less patience and more susceptible to violence. This has also increased the crime rate in the society. People want to act like their favourite celebrity in real life, which cause many problems. For Instance, people start fighting over a small dispute which could turn into a battlefield on a later stage. Fashion and style that youngsters often follow because of their favourite actor or actress are often unacceptable in many societies.
	In conclusion, I believe that we should use media as a fun activity rather than highlight its negative aspects. It is also recommended to remove violence. Finally, movies and TV has more positive effects and should be the mandatory part of everyone lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2224-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1024-what-do-you-feel-are-the-right-uses-of-money",
Essay 328:
	Money plays an imperative role in one’s life. However, some among the mass believe that it is the most significant than other important factors and aspects of life. A moot question pertaining to the use of money would be the meticulous ways to spend it and other factors attributing to one's quality of life? Let us discourse on this topic below.
	As far as the right use of money is concerned, the golden rule would be to spend it wisely focusing on righteousness and virtues. Firstly, money should be spent on one's necessities compared to luxuries. It is ubiquitous nowadays for a mediocre family to own cars. This exemplifies the innate quest within the public to be extravagant. Secondly, money being spent on charity would classify the right use of it. From time immemorial, man has perceived himself as a social being, hence money spend on helping others would serve its ideal purpose. Thirdly, the monitoring efforts have been made to combat the threats to human existence on earth like terrorism, global warming etc. would be the next in line. Worldwide fundraisers to counter these menace exemplifies the right use of money.
	Apart from money, factors are many that contribute to one's quality of life. A good life would mean social, emotional and physical well-being of an individual. An individual devoid of mental peace would be a backlog contender towards achieving the quality of life. Maintaining one's social and familial relationships in an enchanting manner would be ideal for quality life. Another indispensable factor in this context would be the success in life that one earned, both success and good life being directly proportional to each other. Last but not to the least, one's innate qualities like kindheartedness, love towards their counterparts, the way one thing all constitutes to achieving a better quality.
	To conclude, I would like to reiterate that though money is eminent, when it comes to livelihood and quality of life, it would be dogmatic to assert that wealth is the most important than other factors involved in a healthy living. Along with the other determiners and rightly spend money, life is beautiful!
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2223-more-and-more-people-are-suffering-from-stress-related-problems",
Essay 329:
	Life has become more stressful than ever. People seems like cannot find a successful path due to stress related problem. Mentally disturbed one have problems in each and every step of the life. In my opinion, people should have stress but not across the inordinate level of stress in day to day life. Higher competition, higher expenses, limited resources, more expectation and globalizations are the main reasons for this increased stress in our life. Having realistic ambitions in life, living a positive life, better family bonding and being honest and contended are the main ways of overcoming this problem.   
	Again, frustration and depression are the reasons for mental stress for people and drug abuse, family issues and social perspectives could be attributed to these. Stress decreases the efficiency of people on job. People with such pressure also fail to manage good relationship within home and outside. Such people cannot become happy as well as people around him are also affected.
	There are many steps that the individuals and the society can take to make our life stress free. First of all, we have to learn to be contented and satisfied. Without being self-contented no one can ever overcome this problem. Proper planning, punctuality and better family bonding can solve this problem to some extent. We should live our life in a decent way and should always be honest not to question our own honesty and integrity. As far as I am concerned, sometimes, I have suffered for my career growth stress. But I did not cross the inordinate level of stress. I immediately concentrate towards the situation and find the problem myself and I try my best to come out from stress by making a proper plan and solve the problem as soon as possible.
	Again, the cumulative effort to be happy and contended by each family member can contribute to a great deal. We should keep our body fit and do exercise daily. It is medically proven that proper exercise helps us reduce our stress. We should pick up hobbies, travel new places and read frequently to remove our stress. We also can travel to naturally beautiful places to reduce stresses of our mind. Travelling creates an opportunity to encounter with new circumstances and help to refresh our mind.
	In my opinion, to come out from stress people have to identify the reason of stress and have to start working hard to resolve the problems immediately. If we cannot take immediate actions for our problems and stress, that might create a hazardous situation in foreseeable future.
Essay 330:
	Life is faster-paced today than the past and people are forced to work harder and for long hours to save their jobs. The professional and social competitions have skyrocketed and so has the stress-related issues. Our attitude, high competition everywhere and the very job nature demands more of us and as a result, we are suffering from stress-related illness. Our attitude towards our life and self-contentment could be the answer to this problem.
	Ever changing and challenging job environment, rat-race in the job market, frequent deadlines, lengthy working hours, monthly targets and frequent meetings put us on our toes. We are in constant fear that the employer would pick someone else and we would not be promoted unless we excel in our jobs. Furthermore, technology changes rapidly and that makes the existing skill sets become obsolete and forces people to take more pressure to learn the new technologies. Income and job-related uncertainties are two major pressures on professionals and ambitious and achievement oriented people thus suffer from stress-related issues.
	Besides, the ever increasing population in the city put more pressures on our immediate environment and resources. As resources become scarce, they also become more expensive which adds more pressure on the already struggling citizens. The growing intricacies of the modern world are compounded by the change of lifestyle and our expectation that pervades all aspects of our life and thus making our life more complex. If we do not know where to stop and when to relax, we will never be able to appreciate the beauty of life and come out from the stress-related problems.
	To solve this problem, we have to change our attitude towards the life. Life is not about running after money and promotion and once in a while, we have to take breaks. If we know what creates our stress and start living a healthy life as much as possible, we would have a better lifestyle. From the employers' end, there should be some initiatives for reducing the stress at workplace. Moreover, spending quality time with the family members and with people, we care about is another good way to fight stress. Above all, we have to learn to lead a contented life with whatever we have. This is the mantra of a stress-free life.
	In conclusion, we have got only one life and if we let the modern world intricacies eat it up, we would be the greatest fool in the history. We need to be happy with little and lead quality time with family members to fight the stress-related issues that we acquire due to the competitive and demanding job environment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2211-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1022-many-people-say-that-parents-are-the-best-teachers",
Essay 331:
	Undoubtedly, parents can teach their children more efficiently than the others because both of them know their children very well and have a greater bond with the kids.  While the lessons learnt from our teachers, friends and our own experiences are very important; none can exceed the parents as teachers. This essay intends to assess this statement in depth as follows.
	Parents get sufficient amount of time to spend with their children rather than teachers. During this time, they teach each and everything about the world as well as academic subjects as much as they can. Moreover, they clarify the doubts of children in various aspects which are the required quality of an excellent teacher. Such activities help children to increase their wider knowledge considerably.
	Secondly, parents know their children from the earliest stage of life. Therefore, they can easily evaluate both strong and weak areas of their own children. This helps parents significantly to guide their children to overcome their weakness which is the important responsibility of an ideal teacher. Furthermore, in this way, parents can also motivate their children to learn more lessons which are very useful for their bright future. For all these reasons, I can say that parents can be perfect teachers without any doubt.
	However, there are those who believe that all parents cannot teach their children due to their poor knowledge, lack of social skills and so on. They also contend that only certain parents can become the best teachers for their children. Nevertheless, I think that parents can give many moral lessons to their children in spite of poor academic qualifications.
	In conclusion, although all parents cannot perform as good teachers in academic areas, they can teach all other lessons from their life experience which are also crucial for the future life of the young generation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2210-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1021-professional-athletes-as-good-role-models-for-young-people",
Essay 332:
	From my viewpoint, young people are influenced by the grown-up people's behaviour in many cases. They also mimic their favourite actors, singers, sportspersons and that is why professional sportsmen or sportswomen have to pay more attention to their attitudes and they should be aware of how they affect youth's lives.
	Athletes are the people who are being observed by many people from all over the world and this popularity means responsibility. Consequently what I meant with responsibility is how sports people behave in their daily life. In one hand, engaging with sport might even make every man or women stronger and healthier. Namely, youth who are watching sport will be encouraged by athletes' health and also the lifestyle. Furthermore, they will become more eager to being athletes.
	On the other hand, despite these athletes who have undeniably good lifestyle and health, undoubtedly there are also sports people who have a vast popularity but haven't got a bit of ethic. In spite of their bulk money, they waste the money whimsically. But they don't choose to do a charity instead. So it is evident that these people's lifestyle cannot be a prime example for youth. Thus professional athletes should not neglect their daily life and must take their role on youth into account.
	Again, the way they appear in front of media, they fashion trends that follow and the way they speak or behave are often mimicked by people. They are already role models for many and they can positively influence others, especially the young generation. A new hairstyle by David Beckham would definitely become a fashion trend among many youngsters. They can definitely become the role model of many young people especially who have passions for sports. The good example the sports persons set through personal life, appearance, charity works can create a very positive image to others and thus they have a greater influence on the young generation.  
	To sum up, in spite of the youth can be easily manipulated by other people, the professional athletes through their works and behaviours can set positive examples and can become role models for the young generation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2209-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1020-has-easier-food-preparation-improved-the-way-people-live",
Essay 333:
	Undoubtedly, food is the basic requirement of all human beings. Since people nowadays make different kinds of foods very easily, it greatly influences people’s life positively due to various reasons as follows.
	To begin with, unlike in the past, easier methods of cooking save a considerable amount of time and energy of people which they utilize efficiently for their individual and professional sectors to achieve goals. In this way, people’s life standard has developed to a great extent. For example, according to the research of Indian Employment Sector in India in 2014, there was a remarkable increase in the number of women workers compared to previous years due to decreased household works mainly cooking.
	Moreover, people’s health status has improved. To explain, in the past, people often avoided cooking in their own homes due to their busy life. But now situation has changed as anyone can prepare food easily without any training. This trend has enabled them to make homely and healthy food instead of having fast foods from restaurants. For instance, youngsters and even children make healthy and tasty foods as they like with the help of advanced home appliances easily. These activities make enable youth people more confident and independent to cook food rather than approaching parents or elders. In all these ways people’s lifestyle developed remarkably.
	In conclusion, the way of cooking has a significant role in individual life directly or indirectly. So in this modern era, people are always following easy preparation methods of cooking for the enhancement of present lifestyle.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2208-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1019-is-this-dependence-on-computers-a-good-thing",
Essay 334:
	The invention of the computer is referred to as an epic among the other technological breakthroughs of last century. The role of computers in today’s lifestyle has reached such dizzy heights than anyone could ever imagine. Righteously, its use in various fields of medicine, crime investigation and even aerospace engineering is explicit. In the midst of a computer-driven world, its future purposes are infinite. The affinity that human has developed for this technological gizmo is mammoth, and this dependency, for many is moot.
	In the present scenario, majority of the fields, mankind thrives on are revolutionised by computers. Its significance in the medical field, for instance, is quite imperative. For example, from the safeguarding of patient medical records to the automated and meticulous interpretation of investigation reports, are computerised. The role of computers in crime investigation is rather inevitable nowadays. Global satellite tracking on personal gadgets of criminals to chase them down would exemplify this. Another significant technological impact computers made is in aero-spacing, where, even flying an aircraft has become computerised, dubious whether Charles Babbage envisaged the same?
	The future use of computers by the humankind is endless. To name or pinpoint on its future prospectives, would be cumbersome or rather impossible. Some believe that in near future, computers will serve the purpose of being the 'first hand 'of help to humans. A globalised world under the umbrella of the computer revolution is not farsighted as before. The very existence computer operated human robots that could even replace a human, is not a myth anymore.
	Now having discoursed, about the computer revolution and its effects on mankind, a question of one getting dependent on computers is impeccable. In this globalised world, computer addiction is a major concern unattended. Children spending long hours on computers and its misuse in workplaces by employees is ubiquitous and a generally accorded bane.
	In my opinion, as humans, one should be able to imbibe the virtues and reject the vice, when it comes to using computers.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2207-what-can-governments-do-to-reduce-amount-of-rubbish-produced",
Essay 335:
	In the midst of globalisation and industrialisation, the amount of waste being exhaled, detrimental to our planet earth, is appalling. Reasons are aplenty, as to why this is a frequent occurrence and the imperative role of government worldwide over in countering this, is a moot one. Let us discourse on the same below.
	There are many reasons behind the increase in the production of rubbish throughout the world. Firstly, the ever increase of population of the humankind has contributed to a mammoth share of the trash. The number of people has always been directly proportional to the volume of waste being produced from the time immemorial. Secondly, the industrial revolution, that shook the world a decade ago, is considered the sole culprit in the production of industrious waste onto earth’s surface. Again the number of industries and factories contributing to this menace is on a steep climb, since its inception.
	Thirdly, the population rise has led to more transport system around the world, owing to an increase in the waste produced from the vehicles and other means of transport. To cite an example from the part of the world I live, the discarded parts of cars, such as a blotted tire, is ubiquitous, compared to the past. Finally, the sheer negligence from us, with regards to the recycling of waste products has led to adding more chaos to the present scenario. No care, what so ever, was taken in the production of biodegradable products, so as to mitigate the amount of trash produced!
	The role of government in combating the issue is inevitable. They should be imposing restrictions on the above-discoursed factors, favouring waste segregation. Population check, of governments on their respective states, should be made mandatory. The industries and factories should be restricted and monitored for the effective recycling or biodegradation of their waste produced. The amenities used by mankind, such as transport should be made more efficient and effective in terms of discarded residual waste. Building eco-friendly homes should be encouraged.  More emphasis should be made on the recycling of all the industrial trash being produced o an emergency basis. The government should focus more on the fact that these are either biodegradable or can be recycled effectively.
	From the above discourse, someone's role as civilians of earth and that of government is quite interdependent and significant, when comes to reducing the amount of waste being produced.  Punitive measures from the government are the needs of the hour, to tackle this issue, so as to ensure rather envisage, a cleaner and habitable planet earth.
Essay 336:
	Rubbish simply refers to waste production, which is a severe issue for the whole world due to recent environmental degradations, pollution and global warming. The reason behind the increasing garbage production and some measures to improve the overall situation will be discussed in this essay.
	There are a couple of reasons, in my mind, behind the increase in waste production in recent years. First, the uncontrollable use of non-decomposable carriers (eg. plastics and polythene) is one of the top-most causes of excessive waste production. Plastics is a bigger concern and it is being preferred more than ever for packaging or bottling certain products, especially in the food and beverage industries. Besides, the incognizance of citizen is playing its part undoubtedly. We are being used to a throwaway culture rather than using recycling products. This is leading to the preferences of companies to produce one-time products which are eventually increasing more and more waste production.
	To reduce waste production and to save the environment, governments in all countries have to play a bigger role than they are actually playing. The government should legislate strict laws to enforce companies to use decomposable packaging materials. Assistance from the judicial system can be a good move. For example, the mobile courts led by licensed magistrates can fine those whoever does not comply with the law. The government should also encourage people and manufacturers to take part in recycling and reusing products whenever applicable. Restaurants and fast-food shops should offer a discount on food and drink items when customers return the packaging bottles or packets that were made of plastics. Such kinds of initiatives should be appreciated by authority.
	In conclusion, the government, as well as the manufacturers, need to be more focused on the consequence of massive waste production, therefore stepping forward to apply possible measures can reduce the growing concern.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2206-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1017-why-do-you-think-people-attend-colleges-or-universities",
Essay 337:
	Many people choose to go to college or university and there are a variety of reasons why they choose to do so. For instance, some may prefer further studies to gain educational qualifications required for a competent workplace and high career prospects; meanwhile, a few others might choose to pursue their studies to gain new experiences compared to the very structured form of education experienced in high school. On the other hand, pursuing higher studies seem as the only choice or as the next step that is assumed to be taken.
	Considering the first reason into consideration, higher studies are indeed required to secure a high paid and reputable designation at a workplace. This is because many employers set competitive recruitment standards to hire the most qualified and suitable candidate for the vacancy. As a result, applicants need not only extensive work experience but also the educational requirements that can enhance working knowledge.
	Moving onto the second choice as to why people tend to go to college or university is as mentioned before, to gain new experience since high schools set a very structured study environment. This is at least true considering high schools in Sri Lanka where a fixed syllabus is supposed to be followed and any other additional topics or subjects not included in the syllabus will not be taught or considered. Therefore, students are forced to study only what is taught. However, life in college or university is very different as the individual is given more freedom to research on other areas of interest and have the space to be more creative.
	On the contrary, once again taking the Sri Lankan culture into consideration, most individuals are convinced by parents to pursue higher studies as it sets them apart from individuals who start work immediately upon completing high school. Therefore, pursuing higher studies is indeed a prestige and a privilege as not all students have the ability or opportunity to do so. As a result, attending college or university can sometimes not be exclusively the individual’s choice but merely an obligation that is meant to be met in order to satisfy parental standards or requirements.
	In conclusion, my personal opinions are as mentioned above but there are numerous other reasons as to why someone would want to go to college or university and may vary from one individual to another. However, though the reasons tend to differ, it is always admirable that many people choose to pursue higher studies than discontinuing studies after high school.
Essay 338:
	It is true that educational institutions such as colleges and universities help people to achieve new experiences, higher knowledge and for career preparation. From my point of view, people must go to colleges or universities due to various reasons as follows.
	To begin with, this is the biggest opportunity for students to expose their talents in front of a large number of people. To be clear, after their school education with a limited audience, this is the next level. They get more exposure in front of a massive crowd. These experiences boost the person to develop his skills further. Moreover, such talented students can promote many beneficial activities for the welfare of the society. To explain, most of the people are easily being influenced by creative people. For example, nowadays, government depends on the creative artists to conduct awareness campaigns for the betterment of the society. As a result, people get useful information along with entertainment which enhances the overall development of the society.
	Furthermore, universities and colleges improve social skills to a great extent. These institutions give a lot of chances for people to interact with different kinds of people from various levels of social sectors. Therefore, communication skill can be increased efficiently which help for social interaction among members. These interactions make enable the person more productive for the country. For all these reasons, I strongly believe that people should attend colleges or universities without any doubt.
	In conclusion, educational institutions always support and encourage people to do positive things for themselves as well as for their country. So, all people have to complete their university degree or college education to have a better career and better contribution towards the society.
Essay 339:
	Students attend formal educational institutes for many different factors. I personally believe that knowledge has multiple dimensional impacts in personality making. Higher education centres help the people in learning of knowledge, skill, communication, competitive lifestyle, grooming, personality making and building of confidence and career. Some people join them for the sake of getting degrees only.
	Although most of the students join these institutes in very purposeful manner but some people join them unplanned. Children of elite class join these education centres for the sake of fun only. Few female students complete their education very successfully and after completing their studies they like to get married and keep on staying at their home.
	Just for the sake of comparison if we analyse people who got their education from universities and colleges with those who got these degrees by studying distant education resources, we will get amazing differences. Students from many prestigious institutions will be better groomed, professional and hard working as compared to others.
	In short colleges and universities improve the human personality from many angles.  They award degrees and try to make the wonderful citizens also. To summarise, higher education centres are mandatory in building a Nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2202-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1016-governments-should-not-provide-care-or-financial-support-for-elderly-people",
Essay 340:
	People have different views on whether a government should support the elderly and retired people financially or not. I believe that it is mostly an individual’s responsibility to save money for their retirement but I totally disagree that elderly people shouldn't receive any support from the state. The combination of personal support and the government’s support could be the best possible solution for the retired elderly people.
	On the other side, those elderly people do not have any alternative way of earning, as their chances for employment is quite low in contrast to the young people, they should be taken care by the savings they have, by their own children and by the government. 
	The people should always have savings and relatives who would be taking care of them when they become old. The parents take care of their kids and sacrifice a lot. The children should always be ready to take care of their elder parents. A prudent person would have some savings for his old years and thus it is also an individual’s responsibility to save for their future need. Furthermore, the government can’t deny its role to take care of the elder people. The combination of these three can be very effective to take care of people when they become old.
	In conclusion, governments should take the responsibility of providing senior citizens with all their financial needs as part of  ensuring their well-being and at the same time it is an individual's responsibility to save money for their hardest time  and their sons and daughters have some responsibilities as well.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2201-advantages-and-disadvantages-for-child-of-having-a-large-number-of-toys",
Essay 341:
	In order to cultivate children's intellectual development, a growing number of parents spend money on purchasing different toys for their children. According to an official survey, children's educational toys can allow their cognitive development to be effective and faster. The following paragraphs are going to discuss the pros and cons for children having lots of playthings or toys.
	Apparently, providing a wider range of toys to children to play with can benefit their psychological developments. The best toys engage a child's senses, spark their imaginations and encourage them to interact with others. For example, Lego blocks can help preschoolers to learn letters, numbers and languages skills. Moreover, it can improve their communication skill as well when they play with other kids. As everyone knows, communication plays an essential role in our life and the toys can help them have playmates with whom they communicate a lot. Finally, some toys are made for children's educational purposes. For example, blocks, educational computer games, puzzles etc. ignite the creativity of children and let them find out their interests.
	Nevertheless, other people propose that the argument above is merely a one sided story as children having too many playthings become greedy. For instance, many parents spoil their children by purchasing every toy the children want. Afterwards, those children will have a strong desire to acquire more toys. Moreover, those toys need a plenty of money and wasting is an evil act. Furthermore, too many toys may grow a conformist mentality in a child as they are immature to distinguish the good from the bad and they just follow other children's playing style, activity and characters. Finally, if a child gets every toy he wants, he will not value most of the toys and lose his interests on a toy and would like to have a new toy. Thus the true need of toys is misused by purchasing a lot of toys to the children.
	In conclusion, toys play an important role in helping a child's growth but too many toys affect children's psychological development negatively. Thus parents should lead them in a proper way and purchase a reasonable number of toys that they would feel right for their children.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2200-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1014-a-gift-can-contribute-to-a-child-s-development",
Essay 342:
	During first few years of life, children are greatly influenced by their surroundings, attitude or parents and things they play with. During development ages for a child, his/her mental capabilities and physical growth relies on the way s/he utilises it. In my opinion, sports related gifts will be important for children as they would help them to grow their interest in sports and that might bring out potential talents they might have on sports. In terms of relation building, gifts are always helpful.
	Before taking the decision to present something to children, one must consider the age, liking and disliking, health hazards, durability and cost of a gift. Children love to play physical sports and enjoy the taste of contact with their beloved ones. By playing football kids will get their muscles developed. It will increase their stamina for walking and running. By playing with children of same age group, they will get these sweet memories imprinted in their mind. From these senses, giving sports materials to kids has many benefits. Similarly, kids like to explore new things and thus grow their interest. A gift like a camera might bring out a potential photographer for the future.
	Sometimes wrong choices of gifts can cause physical injuries and in some other cases, kids might not use it due to lack of interest in that particular object. Few people present very costly stuff to the growing age group and they don’t appreciate these valuables, simply they misuse it and there will be a waste of money.
	Giving a small bird or a pet would help them to get close to them and thus it would help them to develop a better understanding of the world and other creatures. Sometimes they require taking care of their pets and they learn this great quality of life. Personally, I would like to give a pet to a child as it would help them in many ways including knowing about this species, getting closer to that pet, taking care of it, and exploring many new activities that would help them better develop as a human.
	In short, every incidence, contact and story produce some impacts on the personality of a growing child. So the choice of gifts must be very meticulous and useful. Sports item are by and large harmless and produce positive effects in human development while a pet as a gift can help them explore new things and learn how to take care of others.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2199-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1013-there-is-no-need-to-give-international-aid-by-government",
Essay 343:
	It is a big concern for many people that it is not a compulsory responsibility of their government to provide international aid to other countries owing to the fact that they have some obstacles in their home country. In my opinion, I would like to stay in middle ground of this debate.
	Firstly, one important aspect of a government is to invest money in their own country instead of giving wealth to other countries. In fact, it is true that when the unemployment rate is high in a country and people of this country need better economic structure, they would not support that their governments supply aid and money to other poor countries. Naturally, they would expect their own problems to be sorted out first. For instance, if any government invests money for the constructions of many new organisations like factories and health departments in their homeland, there will be more chances of development of country and high opportunities to control on unemployment.
	Another important thing for any country’s government is to provide homes and some other facilities to homeless people rather than lending money to other countries because in this way the economy would be better than before in that country. If any government has extra money firstly they should focus on compulsory needs of their own country after that it can be provided as the international aid to other countries.
	However, we live in a single globe and when people in some parts of the world are starving, many others have opulent resources. Sharing among nations can ensure a better world. The economic structure of the present world would never allow a country to ensure 100% employment and houses for people to live in. there will always be homeless people and jobless youth even in developed countries. So considering these, a rich nation should always help the poor nations in need. Don’t we help people with our resources and money when we still have a scarcity of these? Similarly, a comparatively rich country should always raise the helping hand to the poor nations. The sharing of wealth will eliminate more pressing problems in poor nations and thus in return they would also help in other ways. For example, rich countries like the USA invest in research facilities in many Asian countries and in return they can have meritorious scientists living and working for them and better business understanding.
	In conclusion, the government of a country should first fulfil the necessity of its own citizens. To a certain extent, they should share their extra wealth to poor countries as the international aid that can be helpful for both of the countries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2198-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1012-sport-has-an-important-role-in-society",
Essay 344:
	Nowadays, there has been a positive trend that sport has gained popularity in society. However, others think that sport is just a leisure activity. In my perspective, both views have credibility which I will elaborate in this essay.
	First of all, it is an undeniable fact that there are some reasons why sports is essential to the society. One of the reasons is that people can become healthier than ever before. By playing sports frequently, people can release toxic elements from off their body in order to help the government to save money which is allocated for health insurance's residents. For example, the number of obesity and heart attack, today, has decreased significantly throughout the world because of sports implementation.
	Another reason is that young generations are able to cultivate a good habit. With the rapid advancement of technology, they tend to do sedentary activities such as playing computer games and chatting through social media as well. If parents encourage their children to do sport instead of playing games at home, children can improve their social interaction with peers. However, there are opposing arguments saying that sport is nothing more than a leisure activity. It is true that sport can be counted as a leisure activity because not everyone has the abilities and potentials to become professional sports players. Therefore, people generally consider it as a simple activity for relaxing their mind and body during holidays. Apart from this, many families see sport as the way to strengthen the sense of belonging to the relatives especially for children because parents' time is spent more to do job tasks and put less care on them.
	All things considered, although some people believe that sports are merely some leisure activities, I still think that sport plays an important role in the society because it has brought advantages to people in terms of health and social areas.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2197-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1011-government-should-support-mothers",
Essay 345:
	It is certainly true that child rising is considered to be a crucial work of every woman. Although I accept that few women are still need of government’s support, I believe not all women expect this.
	Gone are those days, when women were typical homemakers or mothers. The roles of women have changed inside today’s contemporary families. In fact, the women are becoming the breadwinners of the family and men are taking up the role of house husbands. So how is this possible for a mother to become wholly responsible for children’s upbringing! Educated women of this modern world share their responsibilities with their life partners and are also focusing on financial issues, career, savings etc other than the usual household chores and taking care of their children. It is believed that child’s behaviour nowadays is shaped by the schools and the society. So the parents just look after that their ward is getting educated in a good institution. In this way, the child grows more independently and successfully. Therefore, it is practically not possible for women these days to spend more time in child raising.
	However, there are still women who are in dire need of government’s support. In some rural areas which are not developed, women still take up only the role of mothers. They may not be well educated and therefore cannot support themselves. The situation would be worse if she is divorced or a widow. In this case, women should be supported financially. For instance, Pettavaithalai village near Trichy city in India receives a funding to support all the mothers with Rs 10,000 monthly. Consequently, the women and her children are now developing and becoming successful. Thus, few women should be supported by the government.
	In conclusion, while I accept  that in few areas of the world women still lives on the darker side and should be helped, I believe that the revolutionised world has changed the role of most women and they do not depend on government’s support.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2196-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1010-television-is-dangerous-because-it-destroys-family-life",
Essay 346:
	It is certainly true that we prefer to watch television rather than getting along with our family or meeting people. Though I agree that it is not a positive impact, I believe it does not completely ruin any one's family life or society.
	On the one hand, the idiot box is considered to be a dangerous tool which has a significant impact on both individuals and society. With regard to individuals, they get addicted to the programs telecasted and give low priority to the members of their family. Most Indian ladies who regularly watch mega serials have proven to have poor bonding with their family. At the same time, unknowingly it consumes more time than we expect. Consequently, we realise that we could have spent quality time with family or friends only at the later stage. Since everyone becomes a couch potato, there is less interaction with the neighbours and thus resulting in a community which is not really socially interactive.
	On the other hand, television is not the only cause for problems in family and community. It is a well-known fact that internet access and other electronic gadgets like mobile phones, computers and laptops contribute to a great extent. Therefore, there becomes less necessity for people to communicate directly with the advent of group chats, video calls, free messaging and instant reply. Moreover, hectic work schedule drives more people towards entertainment to unwind themselves and re-energize for the next day. This does not cause any disturbance in a family if its usage is kept under the limit and all other relationships are prioritised. In fact, many programs like 'family no 1 ' are being broadcast to insist the family values and mutual understanding .This is not all there are several events of social concern being exposed to public to create awareness. Thus television cannot be blamed entirely as it has its own benefits.
	To conclude, the entertainment motto of television is appealed more and it is common to devote time for relaxation .This is not all our working hours have changed these days and by that time  we would not have any one's company other than television. In my opinion, it would no way affect the relationship and socialisation if it is properly used in proper time.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2194-online-shopping-has-become-more-popular",
Essay 347:
	Recently, the number of people who purchase various products and services online is increasing more than ever before. This has certainly affected the business of shopping centres to a great extent. However, I consider this development as positive, due to a number of reasons.
	To begin with, e-shopping is generally considered to be more convenient for customers than in-store purchasing. Perhaps, this is because, many people, nowadays, are unable to find adequate time to go shopping as they are too busy with professional or personal responsibilities. For example, virtual shopping websites such as, eBay and Amazon provide a wide range of products online, which cater to the needs of individuals from the comfort of their home. Moreover, such shopping sites have considerably reduced major inconveniences associated with shopping, like travelling to distant shops, parking vehicles in crowded cities and spending a considerable amount of time.
	Furthermore, online shopping allows people to select from a wide range of products, and the prices and features of products are often compared. This has enabled customers to choose the right products that suit their needs. For instance, popular online shops in India, namely Flipkart and Jabong have not only provided detailed information of their products on sale but also customers' opinions and reviews on their product experience. Besides, placed orders on these websites can be altered or cancelled by customers, and purchased products can also be returned if they do not meet the assured quality.
	Shopping, however, is a social experience for certain people and many of them enjoy shopping as leisure or entertainment. But, popular shopping websites often compete with stores with lower prices and discount sales. This has also influenced many people to purchase products online.
	In conclusion, online shopping offers greater benefits to customers when compared to in-store purchasing. Clearly, while it converts shopping into a hassle-free experience, shopping over the internet is increasingly convenient, too. Therefore, I think this is definitely a positive trend and the popularity of online shopping is likely to continue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2193-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1008-how-can-children-who-are-disinterested-in-study-to-be-motivated",
Essay 348:
	Education is highly essential these days. Parents give their best effort to make sure that their children get the highest quality of education. However, some challenges come up in pursuit this goal. One of these biggest problems is the less of students’ awareness and attentiveness in learning.
	Students in many cases usually take part in education by force from parents and society. In other words, students are unaware of the learning process that they have been doing. It is believed, they just want to make people around them proud or pleased. In fact, they pretend to like and enjoy these learning activities even though they do not like that much to study.
	Meanwhile, the improvement of education system serves several kinds of solutions. Particularly varying methods that are used in school or classroom can inspire kids to pay attention and enjoy their lessons. Education stockholders use different styles of teaching to combine with students’ preference. Indeed, children should feel enthusiastic and keep learning continually.
	In addition, the next way out of this matter is children need a role model to show the real benefits of education. It is thought that children will figure out based on the example that to become a successful person; that means they have to study hard and vice versa.  Moreover, the environment of children where they grow up also have a big influence. It means that the place where children are living can improve what they are doing.
	Learning should be fun, at least to the children. The computer based and games based education systems that are adopted in many modern schools could be an effective way to engage the student in enjoying the learning. Learning through experience, fund and sports are the best ways to attract kids to study more. Parents and teachers have to handle the whole learning process delicately to make the students enjoy the reading. Finally, children’s psychology can vary based on their inherent characteristics, family and economic conditions of their parents and that’s why teachers should pay special attentions to each student and act accordingly to grab their attentions and focus on study.  
	In brief, being motivated students could reach closer to their dream. Many ways can lead to better education. A varying and suitable technique, portraying role model and getting support from the environment are pathways to be friendly with the study. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2192-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1007-use-of-mobile-phones-in-public-is-as-annoying-as-smoking-and-should-be-banned",
Essay 349:
	It is often considered by many that the usages of mobile phones in public places should be restricted as smoking has been. I completely agree with the banning of mobile phones in public places, especially where people are working and might get annoyed and interrupted.
	Using mobile phones in public places causes several drawbacks, Firstly, it leads to various social problems. In other words, the use of mobile phones in public places causes serious offence. For example, recent researches showed that use of mobile phones while pedestrian crossing is the major cause of accidents in both developing and developed nations. Secondly, the lack of social interaction among individuals could be the consequence of mobile phones over usage in the public places. For instance, people travelling on the same bus become isolated and busy by surfing the internet on the mobile phones which lead to the lackings of communication among travellers.
	In addition, there would be a scarcity of enjoyment in sightseeing while travelling. Take an example, if a person travelling by train through the countryside, the use of mobile phone makes them forget enjoy the fascinating places outside the compartment. Finally, talking loudly through mobile phones in public places such as church, mosque result in irritation, distress and disturbance to other individuals as mobile phones could be intrusive.
	In conclusion mobile phone usage in public areas should be restricted to the welfare of the society and the citizens because the use of mobile phones in public is annoying as smoking.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2191-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1006-the-internet-is-viewed-as-an-excellent-means-of-communication",
Essay 350:
	The internet is considered to be the boon for the people of the technical era. Since it facilitates them in all fields such as banking, business promotion, entertainment, travel ticket bookings, communications etc. and has been making their work much easier, people are depending on this technology heavily. The most important benefit reaped out of the advent of the internet is the easy way of communication, argues many, like the business people, academicians, students but the counter-arguers emphasise that it is because of this invention the communication skill is gradually waning. However, in my opinion, if this tool is used effectively it could be more beneficial to the society.
	With regard to the people who support the opinion that the World Wide Web is the best method to communicate with others, there are several arguments to put forth. Firstly, e-mail has  been serving  as a  fast and effective  way  to  send  messages and get a quick  reply when compared  to the earlier  postal services. It not only helps in exchange of information but also in more academic works, for instance in conducting webinars. This is where experts from various countries can join in a discussion about a research topic by using the application software like Google hangout. This is not all, personal communication, for individuals staying abroad to get in touch with their family, made facile by the use of Skype. So this way interest aids communication between people.
	Contrarily, according to people who incline to the opinion that it destroys the communication skill, there are few viewpoints. Instead, they would enjoy staying alone with their electronic gadgets which have internet access. This aptly suits for the children who now prefer to stay online and chat which friends as opposed to going out and making friends. So if this scenario persists then they would gradually lose their communication skills, argue the supporters of this point of view.
	To conclude, the internet is the best way of communication as it saves time to a great extent. So if the usage is restricted   to a particular time for children then the negative issue creeping out of this invention could be kerbed. Consequently, the whole society could acquire the advantages of using the internet to communicate.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2190-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1005-discuss-the-causes-and-effects-of-widespread-drug-use-by-young-people",
Essay 351:
	Drug addiction has become a serious problem in our society. It has spoiled dreams and aspirations of thousands of families. The fascinating story of the addicts is that once they accustomed to heinous habit, they cannot get rid of it regardless how they endeavour themselves. Especially, youth are used to drug abuse in my society. So, it is crucial to find the reasons behind their deadly habits. Very thoughtful decisions should be taken to help the youngsters to fight the drug abusing problems.
	The first and foremost reason of this problem is the peer- pressure. As young people hangs out most time with dearer and nearer pals and some may be drug abusers, who compel their chaps to do drugs. Secondly, we can see advertisements, films that show using drugs in a seductive manner. The young have the habit of imitating whatever their best actor do, they no longer keep away themselves doing drugs. In long run, this little curiosity guides them to notorious drug abusers. Thirdly, young people have the attitudes of trying different things in their adolescents. As life is not a bed of roses, they may take drugs to forget all their worries. Family problem, psychological problem and bad influences of friends can be very lethal sometimes as they are sometimes the root causes for young people to try drugs.
	Doing drug spoils the peace and harmony of the family. The druggist son steals cash and kinds to purchase drugs. Later, the family is engulfed in debt.  Another effect of the drug is it may take the life of drug abusers as they hardly give up evil and anti-social habit. If drug abusers exchange the needle among friends, they are vulnerable to transmission of deadly disease like AIDS. In a society where young people abuse drugs, naturally, the crime rates would be high there. More fights and murders could be observed in such areas and there must be personal, social and generation related problems related to widespread drug abusing.  Only a single drug abuser in a family can ruin the whole family and thus a generation declined to drug abusing would bring heinous problems to the country.
	To wipe out drug from society educational programmes should be organised in school, colleges. Rehabilitation centres must be established to assess druggists. Advertisement of drugs, alcohol should be banned from the TV. Families should keep an eye on the bad companies their teenagers are spending time with and finally the family bonding and understanding should be strong enough to discourage the teenagers not to do something that would bring shame for the family. Governments must ensure that their law enforcing organisations are working hard to wipe out the illegal drug businesses from the country and strict laws should be imposed and implemented to punish the illegal drug business people.         
	To recapitulate, drug abusers are evil of family, society and nation. The responsible bureaucrats and government must crack down on drugs to utilise young blood for the progress of a nation.                                
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2189-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1004-some-people-who-have-been-in-prison-become-good-citizens-later",
Essay 352:
	It is true that we should hate crimes, not the criminals as they are also the human being. Evidence shows that good individuals are forced to commit a crime and are convicted and many ex-prisoners become normal members of our society. Since they have suffered from the isolation and punishment, they can share their experience with teenagers and encourage them to abide by the laws and rules.
	To begin with, rehabilitated offenders have experience about the prison life and the types of wrongdoing people get involved in. They can share those experience with the teenagers and young people are more likely to accept advice from someone who speaks from real life experience. This can be a great arrangement to let the adolescents know how someone gets involved in a crime and how they suffer for this. It would discourage them from committing crimes and become good citizens. I presume those teenagers will have many questions and the ex-prisoners are the best persons to answer those and this will have a powerful impact on the fresh minds.
	Moreover, people who have been punished by the law would benefit from this arrangement as well. They would feel better by sharing their stories and this is a great way to stay away from crimes for these people. They would also feel connected to the society and would be glad for doing something good. Alternative ways of educating young people about the menaces of committing a crime are letting teachers educate students. However, in my opinion, this is not that efficient as students would treat those as class lectures, not real life interesting stories to listen to carefully. Educating students through stories and films can also be effective but they are not as much interactive as sessions with ex-prisoners.
	To conclude, we should educate our young generation about the consequences of committing crimes and I believe they would learn this better from reformed prisoners who speaks from their experience.
Essay 353:
	It is true that several people have changed themselves to be a better person after they had been released from prison. And it is believed that they are better in giving advice to young people about the negative effect of crime. I personally agree with the statement and the following essay will discuss in details about it.
	To begin with, it is a fact that the public usually has negative images to ex-prisoners, but not all of them have a bad personality. As some prisons provide technical skill and personal development program to their prisoners, many of them have successfully followed these positive programs. These courses have changed their character and provided them with adequate skill, therefore, they were accepted back in the society. Many of them have learned their lessons during imprisonment, as they worked harder and became more successful than the regular people. Apart from psychopath criminals, an ordinary person, who has committed crimes and has been sentenced to be imprisoned often understand the value of life and thus changes radically.
	But in many countries, the crime rate among young people has been increasing significantly in the past few years. I believe that the best way to reduce the rate is by having some campaigns and testimonials from former prisoners who had changed their life. With their shares, it is hoped that it will open and broaden the view of the young people, about the dangerous side of crime. They would also become an effective mentor because they understand the condition of these teenagers, as they had experienced the same situation before. With their guidance, it is hoped that many teenagers will improve their life and become a better person.
	In conclusion, I totally agree that some former prisoners who had changed their life would be a good advisor for the young generation. Their unpleasant experience would be a valuable lesson for the young people and hope that the teenagers would avoid crime activities in the future.
Essay 354:
	There is no doubt that crime rates have dramatically increased over the last few years. Some criminals managed themselves to become good human beings while their stay in prisons. One of the reasons is that they have practically seen the problems and sacrifice they had to make. Some people argue that these are the best examples of creating awareness about crimes in teenagers. However, others state that a person with a criminal background will not leave indispensable impressions on people minds.
	Firstly, it is the duty of government and the people to identify the aspects of crimes in teenagers. After that, there should be workshop and seminars which should highlight the consequences of committing crimes. It is also the responsibility of parents and guardian to have an eye on their children’s activities. While making little efforts, one can save many criminal activities in their surroundings.
	Secondly, people who were the part of immoral doings and became good citizens after prison could help teenagers in eradicating this short of sins. They have personally experienced all the suffering they had to go through after compelling crime. They know the possible reason, why and how youngsters get involved in such cruel doings. Their worlds would leave undeniable impressions on people minds and will help to eliminate crime from the society.
	Finally, I strongly believe that once a criminal is not always a criminal. If one has regret about his past and has changed himself should be treated like a normal human being. Furthermore, they could help teenager from remaining away crimes while telling them about their sacrifice of time, health and family.
Essay 355:
	In recent years, imprisonment is assumed as the finest method of punishment to offenders of law because after running the punishment time, the majority of people tend to be good members of the society. This condition derives plenty of people think that the prisoners are convenient speakers to talk to adolescents about the precarious of breaking the laws. I personally agree with that statements and I have some reasons to support it which will be explained briefly in the following paragraph.
	First and foremost, detention given to the criminals is usually followed by training and educations that will be utilised in their future life. For instance, they are taught about religion and how to survive their life in the right way such as lessons for becoming a tailor or a painter. Those lessons make them likely to be better inhabitants and might easier to be accepted in their circumstances after completing their penalty.
	Furthermore, due to the experiences obtained as long as running punishment, they seem to become suitable speakers to tell the teens about the difficulties that might be faced when living in a prison .To illustrate, they can share how regretful they are after committing a bad action and how they felt and repented because they cannot meet their family and cannot act freely like others. This story will certainly be remembered by the adolescents since they hear about those bad impacts directly from the prisoners so they will think twice if they want to disobey the applied rule.
	In a nutshell, It can be concluded that majority of people become better citizens after obtaining lessons at the jail and because of the experiences acquired in the jail, they are likely to be suitable people to tell the teenagers about drawbacks which occur owing to be a criminal.
Essay 356:
	It is true that imprisonment helps the offenders to develop an acceptable character in the society and family. Even though ex-offenders can teach about the consequences of crime very clearly, I am of the opinion that they are not role models for the teenagers due to various reasons.
	To start with, teenagers should not learn the effects of illegal activities from the ex-lawbreakers as this way of learning may cause to generate a tendency for imitating such activities in children’s minds, especially who have a lack of maturity and curiosity. Moreover, since ex-offenders have the past history of crime, they are not ideal individuals to teach the younger generation effectively. Social stigma is another factor, which means that social leaders often try to keep away the ex-prisoners from the mainstream of society owing to social status issues. Consequently, they are reinforced to engage in criminal activities repeatedly and they would also be terribly isolated.
	Again, each society has their own prestigious law enforcement system to promote legal awareness in children, which is more effective teaching than learning from the ex-offenders. As such, ex-prisoners are not required to guide teenagers in spite of jail life experience for a certain period of time. An ideal example would be the organisation of awareness programmes of the police department in school settings in India.
	In contrast, there is another line of thought that ex-prisoners are the ideal teachers to make awareness among children regarding the detrimental effects of criminal offences because they have real life exposure in such tough situations. Apart from this, these bitter lessons about punishments can create a strong influence in children, which in turn can generate an innate fear in them to involve any criminal activity. Eventually, children would deter from lawbreaking activities and they become productive citizens in future. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that the ex-prisoners have a clear criminal background and an inner desire to perform such activities again.
	To conclude, despite certain advantages, ex-offenders cannot be effective mentors in teaching ill effects of offences due to many challenges.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2188-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1003-why-is-the-circus-still-a-popular-form-of-entertainment",
Essay 357:
	In spite of our living in an electronic age that offer many modern devices like TVs, tablets, laptops, washing machines, the internet we still follow some old way entertainment like the circus.  Circuses still are known all over the world and the clowns, jugglers or trained animals entertain people to a great extent. Furthermore, the circus is an interesting part of the entertainment for a minority of people in many areas of the world.
	These days, technology has become very popular and almost every human has at least one technological device. In addition, engineers discover new products very frequently and it does not take too much time for these devices to become known all over the world. Therefore, these devices comprise a big portion of people's entertainment, in particular, for youths. And that is why circuses are very dull for them. In spite of this fact, it is evident that children are very interested in circuses and we cannot conceive at how they are entertained by these shows. In addition, clowns' interesting actions and jugglers tricky games are still predominant part of entertainment which amuses people, especially children. And it is undeniable that trained animals such as lions constitute the majority of amusement. Their perilous actions are the prime example of the circus' entertainment. In spite of the minority of people are interested in the circus, it is still a well-known form of entertainment and it is fact that circus' history can be traced to the Roman Empire.
	To sum up, despite the fact that majority people is not interested in the circus and I am sure that there are ones who didn't bother to come to the circus, circus still keeps its popularity around the world.
Essay 358:
	The circus is still an attractive type of entertainment nowadays. Although myriad types of amusement are now available between our hands by means of phones, tablets and laptops, circuses can still draw attentions of many people. In my point of view, main reasons for that are children and traditional appeal of it.
	Firstly it is known by everyone that today people are utilising and dealing with technology and its advantages more than everything else. It has been an undeniable part of our everyday life. A life without electronics is imperceptible for modern people. However, people always want something distinct and spread their sights to visual and attractive distractions. One of the most spectacular and concurrent attractions is undoubtedly the circus whose history is extended to thousands of years ago. Various shows there have fascinated people for a long time and are still fascinating enough to people who have never seen acrobats, dancers, clowns and people who are playing with domestic lions, elephants, snakes and other dangerous animals.
	On the other hand, people have the other reasons to participate in circus shows their children. Kids who are interested in almost everything are keen on to watch dancing animals and jugglers. Hence, parents take their children to this kind of shows to make them aware of what is going on out there and show them exotic animals. Therefore, amazed kids want with a desire to go the circus again and observe other types of shows.
	To conclude, in my opinion, visual attractions of the circus and attraction by children are two predominant reasons for the popularity of the circus. It seems its progress in popularity will not decrease in forthcoming future too.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2187-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1002-placing-advertisements-in-schools-is-a-great-resource-for-public-schools",
Essay 359:
	It is a true fact to consider that in the present day society, the advertisement has become most popular media resource in the competitive market. Considering this, there are some analysts who hold an opinion that the public schools are better places to advertise to increase the funds for the schools, while others consider that it will cause to children to be exploited it will make them as captive audiences. That essay will assertion both side of the contentions before deducing a reasonable conclusion.
	There are many people who speak not to place advertisements to increase funds in public schools. First and foremost, distracted juveniles could be a significant factor. It is generally seen that when companies place the huge colourful advertisement in school, children would more focus in advertisement and they would put less concentrate on studies. For instance, the majority of the businesses are placing advertisements in schools to focus more students’ attraction for their products. Therefore, if pupils do not have enough money to fulfil their requirements, they might get involved in some sort of criminals activities. It is natural that if a billboard advertisement focuses on presenting luxury items, poor students whose parents cannot afford them would feel deprived. 
	There are some groups who are in favour of placing advertisements to increase fund in public schools in spite of views discussed above regarding not to placing advertisements in public school. An increasing number of facilities could be a substantial reason behind the opponent's viewpoint. Nowadays, businesses spent thousands of dollars for reaching their competitive market. Therefore, if they can place advertisements in the right place they would spend more than usual, for example, sponsoring for new buildings and equipment.
	In last, undoubtedly, whether placing advertisements in public school or not is always a matter of discussion; however, as far as I am concerned, advertisements should be banned in the school environment and we should make better and serene environment for kids in schools.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2186-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1001-capital-punishment-is-essential-to-control-violence-in-society",
Essay 360:
	Before starting the discussion on the essential role of death penalty or life sentence, we have to think about its meaning, purpose and factors behind the crime. In our society, people do crimes for the sake of their needs and sometimes for fun and also for the satisfaction of their emotions. In my opinion, if we focus our attention on the causes which put the person on criminal-route then it will be very useful to take the prophylactic measure to stop the happening of crime.
	Death penalty is on the extreme of law enforcements and there are a lot many steps on the way to reflect the fear and respect of law. Criminals who kill others they do this not only for the sake of money but other factors like mental illness, deprived feelings, ignorance and cruel tradition also contributes. If our system of education detects these underlying factors in childhood then we can convert these lethal segments of society into useful stuff.
	Few countries have implemented the rule of capital punishment more aggressively and people over there are very frightened and depressed. Sometimes, powerful people take the opportunity to misuse the law against their enemies.
	We should invest more resources in education, law enforcement on minor crimes and try to punish little people for minor faults. For heinous crimes death penalty should be there but proceeding should be very fair to avoid human bias.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2184-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-1000-international-air-travel-has-a-negative-impact-upon-the-environment",
Essay 361:
	Many people argue what should be done about the consequence of international aviation tour regarding the environmental issue. Some people perceive that it is the best to diminish the number of international flights, however personally I believe that it should not be prohibited regarding some reasons. This essay will look at this issue from time efficiency and health security point of views.
	Firstly, the international aviation voyage is considered to be an essential element in determining time efficiency. Several years ago, when the air travel was not as high as today, people sought to use boats or other transportation vehicles to visit a place or more for some business or even just sort of vacation. They had allocated plenty of time just for one vacation, however, since the air travel has become more popular, people are no longer need to wait for ages when having trips to other places. Thus, they can utilise more time for other activities they already planned to.  
	Furthermore, the international air travel may also be an alarm for health security agent to be more active in controlling disease transmission through air travel. As international air travel may ease the mobility of people travelling from one to another place, the high transmission of some disease is also susceptible either for the traveller or even other community. Since that, the health agencies will be stimulated to expand the prophylactic intervention to ensure that the travellers are secure from disease and will eliminate the spreading of diseases itself.  
	Other forms of transportations like cars and engine boats are causing more harm to our environment and that is why the number of flights should not be restricted. Air travel is far more convenient and time-saving for people and restricting them would simply create inconvenience for people. When we can reduce the damage made to the environment by controlling the deforestation, car ownership and by other means, air travels should not be solely responsible for the environmental damage.  
	In conclusion, the international aviation trip can maximise human life. It apparently breaks the limitation of time and space that many people may consider about and also may be a crucial reminder for health security. Life will not be this convenience if the overseas aviation is confined.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2183-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-999-some-people-believe-that-sport-has-an-important-role-in-society",
Essay 362:
	Nowadays, there has been a positive trend that sport has gained popularity in society. However, others think that sport just leisure activity. In my perspective, both parties are reasonable which I will elaborate below
	First of all, it is undeniable fact that there are some reasons why sports is essential to society. One of the reasons is that people can become healthier than ever before. By playing sports frequently, people can release toxin from their body in order to help the government to save money which is allocated for health insurance's residents. For example, the number of obesity and heart attack, today, decrease significantly throughout the world because of sports implementation. Another reason is that young generations are able to cultivate a good habit. With the rapid advancement of technology, they tend to do sedentary activities such as playing computer games and chatting through social media as well. If parents encourage their children to do sport instead of playing games at home, children can improve their social interaction with peers.
	However, there are opposing arguments saying that a sport is nothing more than a leisure activity. It is true that sport can be counted as a leisure activity because not everyone has the abilities and potentials to become professional sports person. Therefore, people generally consider it a simple activity for relaxing their mind and body during holidays. Apart from this, many families see sport as the way to strengthen the sense of belonging to relatives especially for children because parents' time is spent more to do job tasks and put less care on them.
	All things considered, although some people believe that leisure activity is the same as sport, I still think that sport plays an important role in the society because it has brought advantages to people in terms of health and social areas.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2182-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-998-overweight-in-many-countries-is-a-common-problem",
Essay 363:
	Obesity has recently become a common worldwide heath issue as a manifestation of sedentary lifestyle of people. We should know exactly what the reasons are behind this and then try to solve it accordingly.
	The main reason for obesity is because of the unhealthy, unbalanced diet many people have. People tend to eat easily cocked, ready to prepare fast foods or what we call junk foods. These short of junk foods do not contain any nutritional values and they are rich in oils, fats and sugars, and deficient in the basic nutritional elements like proteins, vitamins and minerals. Also with the advancement of the technology, there is widespread use of genetically modified foods which is totally unhealthy and carry the risk of many serious illnesses like Cancer. Secondly, the fast trend of life nowadays made people lazy and lack the motivation and energy for exercise.  Perhaps they ended up gaining weight because the exercise and physical labour are completely absent from their lifestyle. Finally, the modern society that we live in promotes the easily made food items without focusing on the contents and food values. Furthermore, they promote for the muscle built formula with ignoring the value of exercise and physical fitness which is not effective at all.
	The solutions for this problem need a total change in all of our eating habits. We should revise the contents of all of our daily foods and ensure that it provides us with all the basic nutrients and all of our heath-requirements for example, fruits, vegetables, milk, fish, meat, etc. Moreover, we should add the exercise to our daily routine, as the doctor recommend that we should practice walking daily for a minimum of 10 minutes. Also, we should implement this concept in our new generation to raise a good healthy family. The governments should  have a great role on this by organising a campaign that would advertise for a healthy lifestyle and offer places for free walking and a sports centre at a low cost.
	In conclusion, obesity would always be a common heath issue unless we change our lifestyle in terms of healthy and balanced diet and good physical exercise.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2181-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-997-less-and-less-people-nowadays-go-to-cinema-to-watch-movies",
Essay 364:
	Many countries have recently observed that there is a declining trend in the number of people watch movies in the cinema. This essay will discuss possible reasons for the declination of movie viewers as well as some solutions to address this issue.
	In the era of globalisation, people are more interested in spending their leisure time at home rather than hanging around especially catching a movie in the cinema. It could be a factor that contributed to the matter. Effect of busy and tight schedule of working days, people are more interested in relaxing their mind and muscle at home while watching a television program or doing something which is very meaningful for them. For instance, the television programmes are definitely enough for them to watch and enjoy while staying at home nowadays. There are a lot of channels including music, movies, documentaries, home box office, comedian shows, news show and others which can make people think twice before going to the cinema.
	Easy access to online movies is another reason people visit cinema less frequently. It is natural that people would prefer to watch the latest movie on their plasma screen 3D TV at home rather than spending money to buy cinema tickets. Online movies and piracy have negative effects on the number of cinema viewers nowadays. Finally, low quality of locally made movies is another factor that discourages people in visiting cinema halls.
	In order to tackle this issue, film authorities and the government need to be involved and take further actions, so that our film industry does not face the extinction phase. The first and foremost thing is the director should produce a fresh and high quality of story line which can give more benefits and eventually able to attract people to watch films in the cinema. Next, the cinema organiser or company can make an effort to advertise the film widely and give a promotion day for the people. For example, establishing a special day with the special low rate of movie tickets might attract more people to go the cinema.
	Piracy should be prevented and better cinema halls should be built to attract people to watch movies in the cinema. Lastly, the government perhaps can invest some money for improving their film quality to the international level and consequently can increase the confidence level of people toward the locally made films.
	In conclusion, the number of people who go to the cinema is declining nowadays and that might be due to easy access to the cinema at home, satellite TV channels, piracy and low-quality local films. This problem could be addressed through different ways such as producing good and quality films locally, offering a low rate for tickets, preventing piracy and encouraging people to watch movies in cinema by wide range advertisement. The government also can make some investments for the film as to increase the film quality to the international level.
Essay 365:
	In today's modern era, cinema is playing a significant role. It is an important way to spread messages to the public and it also acts as a source of entertainment nowadays. However, in the recent years, people moving away from it. Due to fewer numbers of people prefer to watch movies or play in the cinema. In this essay, I shall discuss some possible causes and also would like to give my suggestion to increase the attendance in cinemas.
	First of all, the Internet provides all the new released movies and plays. Although it is recorded from cinema or anywhere else, people like to watch it because it is free of cost. Because it is easy to find video over the Internet, public do not go to the cinema to watch movies. They know that after some time of release, the movie will be available on the Internet. In reality, there are many websites available where you can find many new released movies. Further, piracy is not limited only for the Internet. Many people, who do this piracy, burn CDs and sell it in the market. However, this is illegal but still it is being done in front of us. Furthermore, with advancement in technology, the time lag between the releases of movies is very less. At the same time, hundreds of movies are releasing. This trend kills the interest of people about cinema. Lastly, hundreds of channel over cable network playing movies on television. People know that after some time, movies will be played on television. So they keep patience and do not go to the cinema. Besides the quality of local cinema are also questionable.
	To tackle this problem of declining cinema viewers, we need to face the piracy problem first. Piracy is the most affecting cause of cinema attendances’ declining in the modern world. Laws which work on piracy should be amended accordingly and strong punishment should be given to those who are found guilty of it. If anyone pirates this copyrighted property should be arrested and then this will generate a fear in others who pirates movies. Secondly, the websites which offer free download should be wiped out from the internet as they violets the piracy laws. If the public does not find any free download sites then they will shift to the cinema. Thirdly, the film production companies should not sell their newly released movies to the television channel owners. This step will definitely affect the watcher and they will move to the cinema. Piracy is an illegal act and the law enforcers should be active to prevent it. People should be encouraged not to support piracy. If a common man understands that the people are making a black money by selling a pirated CDs then definitely they will not support piracy. Thus cinema will, of course, gain some momentum with watchers. Lastly, local filmmakers should produce more authentic and entertaining movies that would make competition with the foreign movies.
	To sum up, I would conclude by saying that the cinema will re-achieve its pace if necessary steps are taken and that should be done as soon as possible. However, the first step should be to tackle the piracy.
Essay 366:
	It is true that cinemas have not been attracting much public these days. There could be several reasons for this trend and to change this it is necessary to take some measures to make cinemas attractive again.
	There are various reasons why people are not going to the cinema as much lately. One of the reasons is the easy access to the internet and the availability of thousands of movies to be downloaded. If one can watch a movie for free at home, it is hard to find a motivation to pay for it at the cinema. Another reason is that the price of the tickets has increased significantly. It is undeniable that the recent advances in technology have improved the experience of watching a movie in several ways. However, cinemas need to find better solutions to manage the costs of this new technology without overcharging the customers.
	Some measures are quite simple to put in place and can make a huge difference in the attendance numbers. For example, the creation of promotions that reduce the price of the ticket on specific days of the week or give a discount to loyal customers. Another action that could be taken is to promote more the launching of a new movie. One example would be to create an event related to the theme of the movie, like a costume session for people to dress up like the characters of the movie.
	In conclusion, there are several actions that can be taken to attract people to the cinemas again. It is a matter of showing them that they are getting a good value for their money.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2179-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-996-the-cost-of-international-travel-is-decreasing-and-tourism-is-increasing",
Essay 367:
	This is a true fact to consider that in the present-day world has become a global village and people have chances to travel all over the world due to decreasing the cost of international travel. Considering this, some analysts consider that the rising trend of tourism needs to be implemented in the potential countries. However, there are some pros and cons associated with increasing tourism in the world.
	There are some significant advantages of the growing trend of tourism. First and foremost, economic prosperity could be a significant advantage to consider. It is generally seen that a few decades ago only developed countries and rich people had the chance to travel worldwide; however, due to the reduction of cost of air travel majority of middle and lower classes nowadays can afford to travel all over the world or within their own countries for different purposes.  As a result, many developing countries can emphasise their tourism and can earn from foreign tourists and that could be higher than in the past. It can be demonstrated by a recent survey in Sri Lanka that has more than 60% of total income received from tourism. Moreover, mitigating unemployment rates could be another merit of tourism as it offers an excellent opportunity for new jobs potential.
	Despite, the advantages discussed above regarding rising tourism there are some negative effects which cannot be neglected without any careful consideration. Endangering culture, tradition could be done from the excessive presence of foreign tourists and that could be a detrimental fact. Environmental damages and mixed cultural influences are hard to tackle when tourism in a country flourishes.  
	In the end, undoubtedly, increasing worldwide travels has immense benefits to the society; however, there is a number of drawbacks that should be handled properly.
Essay 368:
	It is true that the cost of travelling overseas has become cheaper these days and it has boosted the tourism industry in many countries. The growth in the tourism sector has its own benefits and drawbacks and the following essay will discuss them in detail.
	For a number of reasons, the development of the tourism industry brings a lot of benefits for many nations. Firstly, it creates a lot of job opportunities for the local people. As many hotels and restaurants are built along with the tourist attraction places, they absorb many local employments and reduce the unemployment rate. Secondly, the development will also increase the country's income. As the number of tourists from overseas increases, they spend some money in hotels and restaurants and these transactions are subjected to tax.
	On the other hand, the growth of this industry also brings some negative effects to the country. As more tourists are coming to the country, more tourist attraction places are then built. Many of these places are made in nature conservation areas, whereas some wild animals would lose their natural habitat and bring negative impact to the ecosystem as well. And then some tourists also bring negative behaviours that affect the local culture. For example, in some Asian countries, people might not drink alcoholic beverages. However, as many westerners come to these countries and bring some liquor, many the local people are introduced to the beverage and started to drink alcohol as well.
	In conclusion, it is true the growing trend of the tourism industry has a lot of benefits for many countries. However, it should be noted that it also brings some negative effects to these countries. I personally believe that it is the government task to make some clear regulations for the tourism sectors, therefore all the positive sides of the industry outweighed the drawbacks.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2178-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-995-in-some-countries-children-have-very-strict-rules-of-behavior",
Essay 369:
	In this modern world whether strict rules should be followed by children or not is a very critical and controversial issue. As we know that children are living in different societies and cultures, their behaviour and metal structures are different as well. For example, in Pakistan, more social and loyalty could be observed among children and they respect their parents in a very charming way. While respect is very common, friendly relationship among parents and children are not. On the contrary, in European countries, it is a bit different. In these countries, children have their own motto and they do those types of tasks only which they have set in their minds. However, they have a better and friendly relationship with their parents. So overall strict rules would not be suitable for all geographic locations, which might be helpful in some parts of the world. The strict rules in children behaviour have some advantages but also have some drawbacks which are discussed below.
	First of all the children under strict rules and code of conduct will be responsible and very respectful to the parents, elder people and to the society. Such children build a stable and attractive society. The children in such society feel himself a responsible citizen, mature, and know how to treat others in the society in a respectful way. And the society of such children is free of heinous crimes and drug abuses. On the other hand, children who do not follow strict rules of behaviour become rude, selfish and undisciplined. And such children create hurdles in the society which create bad impacts on a society. And for such children, the government also try to develop such a law to demolish such bad elements from the society.
	Strict rules for children often have very bad psychological and social problems. It is not unusual that parents who bit their children would be hated and not respected by the children at a later stage. Strict rules hinder the creativity among children and make them under-developed mentally. A friendly relationship between parents and kids is often helpful for a better future generation. Strict rules are temporary but love and respects are long lasting. Hence parents should try to be friendly with kids and try to explain the right from wrongs. In many society children’s rude and unexpected behaviour are rooted to the too much strict regulation they were imposed. Hence, a set if strict rules is not always a better option to nurture kids.
	It is concluded from this topic that Children under strict rule behaviour have a good moral character and responsible adults but sometimes this is not a good option and have negative impacts. So I would opine that friendly relationship, some freedom as well as some rigid rules should be combined to nurture the children and for their betterment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2177-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-994-success-is-10-percent-talent-and-90-percent-hard-work",
Essay 370:
	When it comes to the issue of success, a myriad of perspectives has been put forth. Some stick to the idea that hard work plays a key role in success whereas others are on the view that talent is an inseparable part of success. I personally state that the viewpoint put forward by the first group is more logical. In the following paragraphs, I will shed light on my reasons for this viewpoint.
	The price of success is hard work. Perseverance gives rise to success. Individuals, who always succeed, try all times and never give up. It does not matter how many times they fail, they do not give up and stop their attempt till they reach their goal. They never call themselves failure! They really subscribe to the idea that the greatest accomplishment is not in falling down but in rising again and again after falling hard which sets the stage for success. With regard to the issue of gaining success, they really believe that winners never quit and quitters never win.  
	On the other hand, just hard work without believing in ourselves and certain talents does not serve to achieve success. What is in our mind and how positive we think prepares the ground for physical action and eventually gives rise to hard work and gaining success. If we believe that we can achieve to whatever we want and we remove the negative thoughts which serve as mental barriers, we certainly succeed in gaining our goals. Having purpose is also important to work hard. If we know what we really want and why we need it clarifies our purpose which has beneficial effects on hard working. So, besides being hard working person it is essential to be hard planning person too.
	In my view, I really concede that success is 10 percent talent and 90 percent hard work hard. Hard work and self-disciplined perform a pivotal role in gaining success, having a purpose and believe in ourselves are also required along with the hard work.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2176-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-993-international-community-must-act-immediately-to-reduce-consumption-of-fossil-fuels",
Essay 371:
	Increasing consumptions of fossil fuels have resulted in the emission of the greenhouse gas which is one of the causes of issues relating to environmental damage in recent years. Therefore, some people suggest that all countries should take actions urgently to lessen the usage of the harmful energy. From my personal view, I agree with the statement to some extent.
	First of all, it cannot be denied that fossil fuel is one of the major contributors to global warming and climate change. Indeed, the burning of oil and coal produces tonnes of carbon dioxide per year, and it is one of the greenhouse gases that enhance radioactive forcing and contribute to global warming. The rise in temperature of the Earth has associated with numerous of adverse effects such as melting of polar ice caps, flooding of low-lying areas and rise to the sea level.
	Secondly, fossil fuels are generally considered to be non-renewable resources because they take millions of years to form. If the utilisation of mineral fuels is not reduced and controlled, it could be exhausted and people may soon run short of fossil fuels while scientists have not found an alternative energy source. As a result, the price of fossil fuels has also increased greatly which could lead countries to fall into a fuel war.
	However, there might be some concerns about the reduction of mineral fuels utilisation. One among of them is that the approach will lead to failure to maintain well-balanced social order. In fact, manufacture industry, transportation and even home heating require powers, which are generated through fossil fuels. Accordingly, detrimental consequences might impact to the development of the entire the world if we cut down the use of fossil fuel immediately. More than that, some alternative powers such as nuclear, solar and wind power have not been applied widely due to reasons like climate condition, high cost or safety requirement. It could take scientist many years developing these energies to be perfect substitutes for fossil fuel.
	In conclusion, in order to tackle environment problems and avoid the growing scarcity of natural energy in the future, the reduction in the consumption of fossil fuels should be considered and planned purposefully and gradually.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2175-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-992-some-people-prefer-to-plan-activities-for-their-free-time",
Essay 372:
	The pace of life has reached such a dizzy height today that finding time for leisure has itself become cumbersome. When it comes to free time, some among the mass opine that it should be spent with diligence and prudence. However, others oppose this argument and insist that free time should not be something planned. Now the below discourse throws light on pros and cons of planning one's free time accommodating both views.
	In the midst of the arisen of a new world order, planning and strategies play a vital role in our day to day life. Strategy and being strategically optimistic is considered essential factors of becoming successful, in this context, a leisure time spent with a proper plan is a leisure time spent wisely. A proper prudence, prior to spending your free time can invariably reduce the wastage of time and money involved. To exemplify, a well planned and organised vacation could save a lot of money and time on the hotel, transportation and so on. The monitory loss, on an unorganised holiday more or less is an explicit these days. Lost moments, are irreversible and planning one's holiday acknowledges the value of time. In addition to this, with a proper planning, one could avail the privilege of being an early bird, for instance, spending one;s time on shopping where there are more offers will be beneficial compared to navigating by the Sun.
	On the contrary, some argue that free time should be spent instinctively and should not be biased to planning and prejudices. Such prerequisites spoil the enjoyment factor involved .They insist that not to plan, is the best plan to spend one's free time. According to them, leisure time should not get pre-indulged with definite plans as this would make it another mechanical day being spent in some other places than the office.  All that would take place on a leisure day should be impulsive, and not envisaged.
	Now, from an objective analysis of the above-mentioned points, I would prefer to spend my free time in a well organised and judicious manner. As the saying goes "time and tide waits for none", proper planning will ensure less wastage of time. Moreover, such a habit comes with additional benefits of financial gains and much more. To conclude, it is apparent from the above that planning one's leisure time is imperative and rather ubiquitous nowadays.
Essay 373:
	Nowadays, people have become more organised and systematic and they like to plan their leisure time activities before execution. Some people argue that planning is vital for the successful implementation of any activity. Others claim that unplanned activities are full of excitements and surprises that are very difficult to achieve by planned work. I believe that proper planning plays a pivotal role in the completion of an activity within budget and resources.
	Firstly, investing in leisure time demands careful planning of resources and timelines. Most of the people plan occasionally because of inflation and exorbitant prices of goods and travelling. In addition to this one can enjoy and explore more by planning. For example, during my college studies, I planned to visit hill stations with my college mated. Being as students we had minimal funds available for the tour. But with excellent planning, we end up our tour with full of joy and happiness.
	However, unplanned free time activities also have a charm in it. Youngsters are more prevalent in exercising such activities because of its daring and adventurous nature. For instance, adults in my city start their journey on the highway without knowing their destination that followed by a decision made on run time which adds plenty of fun and surprise to their trip.
	To sum up, I would like to say that planning is mandatory for achieving required results. Therefore, a large number of people plan and act accordingly to get the maximum pleasure. However, sometimes unplanned activities also provide you life-changing experiences.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2174-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-991-to-solve-environmental-hazards-the-best-way-is-to-increase-the-fuel-price",
Essay 374:
	At first, it is significant to understand what is environment hazards and why is it escalating. Environment hazards mean a decrease in the quality of the environment where we are residing. Due to harmful gases such as CO2, SO2 emitted by industries, vehicles air is being polluted. The industries throw harmful waste products in rivers which affect the flora and fauna. Not only air and water are polluted, noise pollution has also surged. Same is the circumstances for arable lands.
	So, it is clear that environmental hazards have increased not only by combustion of fuel but others factors are also responsible for it. I reckon increasing fuel price due to this reason is foolish tactics. According to the given assumption, increasing the price of fuel means not to make price common people friendly. If this manoeuvre of concern authority then they will come under fire subsequently and they cannot run the state. Transportation is a boon in the 21st century. We cannot imagine visiting our destination on foot as we cannot afford the cost of fuel. Fuel is essential not only to transport, it is required every walk of life. For instances: cooking food, running industries etc. requires fuels.  
	Obviously, the poor either protest against the price or rob from those people who have purchasing power. It means unrest starts in the country. When it peaks some people loses their life and government is compelled to suspend the price increase. It is vivid that increasing price of fuel is not a solution to control environment hazards rather it unwise strategy. Increasing awareness, banning old vehicles dependency or introducing the renewable source of energy are some inevitable solution to environmental hazards.
	In conclusion, the price of the fuel should not be increased rather others alternative should be deduced. Environment hazards are the common problems of people of every walk of life so, we should solve it moving ahead shoulder to shoulder.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2172-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-990-it-is-more-important-to-have-a-job-you-enjoy",
Essay 375:
	People have different opinions with regard to the question of what to consider while choosing a job. Although I agree the opinion that more incentives and benefits of the job make many individuals happy, I also believe that money is the crucial necessity to be considered to progress in life.
	On the one hand, money should not be the only consideration. This is because, when we get a job that we cherish, there would be no place for work related stress and strain. Since we really appreciate our role, we could take the upcoming challenges as a chance to test our potential. The other benefits like health insurance, free medical services, travel allowances are also having positive impacts on the lives of the employees. Moreover, by working in a dream environment could definitely give much personal work satisfaction although it doesn't help financially. Therefore, according to the people who are inclined to the above beliefs, the best way to fetch a job is to completely analyse all these essential benefits and job satisfactions.
	On contrary, earning money out of a job has paramount importance. Though there are other relaxations given for an employee, the direct source of happiness for them would be income. This means more money he earns the more he would confidently face the revolutionising world by meeting his self-needs, family needs and also by saving for the future. It is a commonly known fact that the inflation rate is increasing and also the cost of living has become high everywhere. In this scenario, it is absurd to be with a job which doesn't help to progress in terms of money. On the whole, money should be certainly the main consideration while choosing a job.
	Finally, while I agree that allowances and enjoyment are prerequisites for career development, I strongly argue that income should also be given priority to get a job that makes us fit in the society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2171-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-989-students-who-do-not-take-a-break-in-studies-between-the-high-school-and-the-university",
Essay 376:
	Nowadays, in this competitive world for success, knowledge and experience are very necessary. Therefore the students who get enrolled in a university directly from high school are less valuable and less contributive to the community as compared to those who take breaks during the study and take some experience through jobs and travelling. For these two different opinions, I am going to classify these two groups with names: group A and group B. Group A for those who do not take rest in studies up to university and group B for those who take a gap between school and university studies and get some practical experience in their lives.
	As we know that study from high school to university studies will give us valuable theoretical experience only. Even in last year of the graduations university will send students to some of the companies for internships and apprenticeships to get training. But this is not enough for a practical job. A real job is something different and difficult from the training. When Group A students get jobs in a large company, they will face problems and they will not know how to handle the situations and how to deal customers and office staffs. Even some of their senior staffs will crush them hard and will tease them because fresh candidates do not know the work environment.
	As compared to group A, group B students will be efficient and active and they will easily come across the problems and customers dealings. They will observe their senior staffs; what they are doing with them and they will response more professionally by using their experience and ability. The students from group B will be able to handle the corporate culture more appropriately only because they have better job understanding than the students of group A.
	Group A students are less contributive also when a firm hires newcomers for a job. First, they have to train the newly hired staffs so more expenses are needed for that which comes from their salaries. And when they get experience, they are offer for better salaries. On other hand group B students from the beginning start earning more through their experience and work. This proves that group B is far more contributive to the new world economy.
	So from the above discussion, it is concluded that Group A students are less efficient, less valuable and less contributive as compared to group B students. Hence in this modern era, we have to get a better education as well as better experience to become competent candidate everywhere. From this regards, taking a gap between the high school and university education to gain practical experience and understanding of the world is a better option.
Essay 377:
	Universities provide lofty education to their students under the supervision of trained professionals. However, they lack in providing practical experience of the subject to students. Some people argue that continuation of studies without break is less fruitful. Students should travel across the world to mitigate their stress and involve themselves into practical work in order to deepen the understanding of the studies they had learnt at universities. I believe that study break is an opportunity for people to enhance their skills by implementing their concept in the real world.
	Practical experience plays a pivotal role in grasping difficult concepts with ease. By tightening the grip of a subject, one can become a master of it. Therefore, it is an essential part of learning to indulge yourself in a practical field after completing high school studies. It will equally beneficial for your knowledge and pocket.
	Students without study breaks for travelling or part-time jobs are less likely to perform well in their professional lives. As they do not have practical working knowledge of things that deterrent their growth in the market, gradually they overcome their problem after having exposure to practical working. Moreover, they also lack behind in other qualities such as teamwork, confidence etc.
	To sum up, I would like to say that learning by doing is the most effective technique that is commonly used by successful people. Therefore, universities should make it mandatory for their students to have practical knowledge of the subject before entering into university. Study without break could cause anxiety and stress and is less effective for young learners.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2170-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-988-money-given-to-help-poor-countries-does-not-solve-the-problem-of-poverty",
Essay 378:
	It is said that support funds that are given to third world countries will not solve the poverty issue and therefore developed countries should think of other kinds of help, which are more effective. To a certain point, I would agree that there should be an alternative kind of help for the poor countries, but financial support would also be needed for a short time period.
	Many experts believe that financial supports that are given to poor countries are not effective and efficient; therefore there should be other kinds of help which could be considered. Firstly, it is a fact that illiteracy has become one of the major issues in poor countries, and developed countries could send some of their teachers to improve the education system there. It is hoped should the literacy rate increase, the number of unemployment will gradually reduce. Secondly, people of the poor countries are suffering due to the low quality of the health system there. Building more qualified hospitals and improving the quality of the medical staffs would be an effective way to help them. And lastly, many third world countries have a bad infrastructure and public transportation facilities. By building more roads and improving the public transports there, it is hoped that people of these poor countries would be more productive as they will have easier access to their workplaces.
	It can be seen that all of the alternative ideas are long term projects, and people would only see the improvement after ten or fifteen years minimum. For a short period of time, financial aid is still needed by the third world countries; as governments could not provide decent health and education system, and many people are starving and sick. However, since corruption is also a serious problem in poor countries, strict monitoring over the financial support should be a priority, to ensure that the fund is appropriately utilised.
	In conclusion, to a certain extent, I would agree that financial aids given by advanced countries to poor nations would not be the best solution in solving the poverty issue. However, since resolving poverty problem would be a long term project, financial help should also be given for a short period of time, but it should be strictly controlled.
Essay 379:
	It is true that donation provided by rich countries has not solved the problem of poverty in the developing country like Bhutan, Afghanistan etc. It is important to understand why rich countries provide money. The reasons behind this are to accelerate development of poor countries by establishing industries, tourism and others pre -requisites. Some of the causes for failure of donation programme are corruption, poor governance, scarcity of skilled population and lack of proper planning.
	Firstly, corruption is mostly prevalent in the developing countries like Nepal, Congo etc.  according to data of the Transparency International. Most importantly, corruption is deeply rooted in almost all fields like health sector, civil service etc. and exists involvement of simple clerks to high-level bureaucrats and politicians. The cause of corruption may be rooted to the lack of handsome salary, lack of severe punishments, selfishness and the slack of rules and laws etc.  If money allocated for development projects is misused, then the quality of the projects reduced or it may not be finished in time. In fact, scenarios like these affect the rate of development in the developing countries.
	Secondly, the sustainable and harmonious development cannot be achieved without effective and efficient administration which is lagging in the poor countries. Succeeding any projects is a daunting task for management committees. At first, the problems arise at the local levels where local people ask for unfeasible demands such as the job for each household, high compensation of lands etc. If these problems are addressed, then, other problems like the strike of employees occur or negligence of contractor occurs. Is it possible to complete projects at the specified time? No, it takes decades to complete the projects or strands in the middle forever.
	Thirdly, there are problems in formulating plans and policies. Even though they are formulated, the authorities cannot implement in a scientific way. So, funds freeze for next financial year. These are only some instances how money provided by donors is used.
	Education, expertise support, training, monitoring the development, conducting research, establishing factories are better alternative than giving money to the poor nations and these should be embraced by the rich nations to truly help the poor countries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2169-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-987-many-of-the-problems-young-people-now-experience-arise-from-the-fact-that-many-married-women-now-work",
Essay 380:
	Gender equality being the buzzword today, the position of women has undergone a sea change in all dimensions of life from the last couple of decades. It is a widely undeniable fact that majority of women now work and are becoming a mitigating factor when it comes to child-rearing at home. Now the question arises, on this trend being the main cause attributing to the increase in juvenile crime rates? In my opinion, married women being employed could be one among the many reasons involved in adolescent delinquencies and I would like to take a via media approach to this moot issue.
	First, aspect to be discoursed in this context would be the mammoth change in the status of woman since last years. This change has had its influence on all social, economic and political spheres of life. In the present scenario, a predominance of employed female common partners is justified to some extent, because of the emergence of the new world economic order, globalisation. They play an imperative role in the society, unlike the past. Moreover, there are more female political figures than ever before on a worldwide perspective.
	The fact remains certain that children of employed women are not well reared compared to their counterparts. Most of these children are forced to spend a major part of their formative periods with the babysitters or in kindergartens. Once grown up, they establish bonds with other people or students from different walks of life.  Unattended or left alone, it is these bonds that become detrimental for them in future.
	The rate of adolescent crime rates and delinquencies are on an ever increase since last few years. Most of the cases when transacted meticulously portray the absence of motherly care and diligence in the upbringing of the child. Another fascinating thing would be that a majority of such children are from families where both parents work. According to various studies conducted by the panel of experts world over concise that whether employed or unemployed it is the carefree maternal attitude being the eminent reason behind the issue.
	From the objective analysis on the above discourse, my conscientious allows me to conclude that irrelevant of being employed or not, it is the quality of maternal care during the formative period that should be accounted for the future prospective of one’s sibling.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2168-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-986-deforestation-caused-by-human-activity-is-happening-in-many-parts-of-the-world",
Essay 381:
	Trees, from all over the world, are diminished and are continues to be reduced by mankind, with many serious perils to our nature and people should not connive at this deforestation. We need oxygen for our survival and trees provide us this most important element for our living. Immediate individual and governmental steps should be taken to save our most trusted friends, trees.
	Forests are the essential source of oxygen and trees encourages the soil and keep the ground from erosion. Furthermore, forests are habitats of a lot of animals and are home to myriad insects. People should take these aspects of forests into account and reform some regulations. The government should be more strict to control the unauthorised chop down activities. Namely, Amazon rainforest has been felled and used commercially and has already caused a huge damage to the wildlife and the environment. Consequently, proper legislations are very vital for preventing deforestation. In addition to legislations informing people might help to slow down saw down of forests.
	In spite of the legislations are oppose to people who remove trees, people will not perceive how perilous these actions are and they will continue to cut trees without realising the danger. Due to their benefit from the trade, the most efficient way to prevent deforestation is to inform people. For instance, governments might make some advertisement to show on the TVs and also on the roads. Furthermore, making some interviews by experts in the news may be another solution.
	More forest securities should be in place to prevent people from cutting down trees. Logging should be banned in areas where the percentage or forest is low and alternative ways of cooking should be introduced. Finally artificial and metal furniture should be used instead of using woods.  
	To sum up, in spite of the vital roles forests play in our life people do not stop to cut down trees and use them for luxury. In this case, governments should reform legislations and inform people about logging danger. Without information people deforestation will continue for commercial use and array of animals and insects will get extended and we will endanger our mother planet.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2166-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-985-governments-pay-partly-or-all-education-fees",
Essay 382:
	In recent year, there is a growing consideration for the government in term of child education, particularly payment for their tuition fees. Although this policy brings certain drawbacks, I believe that the benefits are much greater.
	On the one hand, the policy of free education charge may place a dramatic burden on the national budget. The government may have to pour money in education, therefore financial fund could have not enough for other sectors such as infrastructure and medical care, which may hold the economy back from development. In addition, some taxpayers who live alone or do not have children may feel unfair because their money is likely spent for sake of others, not for theirs.
	However, I would argue that the benefit of free of tuition fee should be more considered. First, among these is studying is definitely encouraged, which lead to the reduction of the illiteracy rate. As a result, the children who go to school will have more chance to find a job, and they would be the future workforce for the country. Take Singapore as an example, they have sponsored education fee for their young generation, which encourages them to go to schools or universities, this is reasons why Singapore has a high qualified manpower contributing for their development. Another significant advantage is that family may not be worried about financial burden because of high education fee, and they would have more money to take care nutrition and health care for their children.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that free charge of education would bring more benefits than its disadvantage.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2165-why-more-people-are-travelling-than-ever-before",
Essay 383:
	Increasing numbers of people have already become fond of travelling all over the world and the trend continues to be evident even during these recent times. Travelling has become a hobby among different individuals regardless of age, sex and race. Some people believe that increased travelling nowadays is because of many reasons including better communication and technological advancement and benefits of travelling to travellers are huge.
	To begin with, one of the major reasons why travellers these days are motivated to travel different places is because of increasing opportunities and demands abroad. In abroad, people can visit their countries of choices to study as international students, work as a professional passionately and the appealing part of grabbing to become future immigrants because of the various benefits they will inherit compared to their country of origin. For example, my aunt decided to work as a licensed nurse in the USA and due to her undying hardworking attitude, she successfully submitted complete credentials and passed exams required for professional registration.
	Another reason why people travel often is that they want to get stamps in their passports whenever possible. In this way, people will have easy access of travelling to places they wanted without hesitations or difficulties. They have the least chances of being denied by the embassies after calling up for an interview.
	The cheap air travel, better communication system and facility to work at anyplace have also inspired people to visit more frequently.
	In conclusion, when people travel more, they will learn the benefits of using other languages and will develop multiculturalism in terms of values, beliefs and attitudes.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2164-in-most-parts-of-the-world-people-are-living-longer",
Essay 384:
	In several countries across the world, the death rate has decreased dramatically. This may be due to several reasons and this essay will analyse those and also suggest whether it brings benefit or drawback to the society.
	First and foremost reason for this scenario is the revolution of healthcare technology. This is because the fatal diseases or disorders which were considered difficult to fight against have become an easier task to tackle these days. Polio is one good example in India which no longer causes death or disorder among people which once was a very devastating disease. Moreover, the technical advancements are also facilitating complicated cardiac surgeries, organ transplantation and 3D printed organ replacement. So these illustrations are proving the worthy role of technology in enriching and enhancing of people’s life.
	While the lifespan of individuals’ increases, it would obviously benefit in several ways both to individual and society. As far as a single person is concerned, if he lives longer then it is certain that he would complete all his responsibilities in a proper way and lead a happy and contented life with his or family. Looking onto the other side, the benefits outnumber the disadvantages here as well. Due to the contribution of persons like scientists, politicians and other leaders to the nation for a longer duration, the development of the nation is a reachable goal.
	By and large, the people are having healthy and longer life because of the intervention of technology in the healthcare sector. This has been proven as a positive impact on both individuals and a larger community and thus can be taken as a sign of betterment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2158-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-982-top-level-authorities-should-take-suggestions-from-employees",
Essay 385:
	It is a true fact to consider that today's world has become a global village. Due to that reason, business has to face huge competition to catch-up the highly competitive market. Considering this, there are some analysts who hold an opinion that in the company top management should consider employees suggestions or ideas before making the decisions or innovation while others consider that they should take decisions on their own. This essay will assert both sides of the contention before deducing a reasonable conclusion.
	Higher authorities should consider employees suggestions or ideas before taking important decisions for the company. First and foremost, job experience could be a significant factor. It is generally seen that majority of the people working in the particular area have become experienced professionals with different practical knowledge that the management could use in their favour for decision making. The fact could be demonstrated by in the food processing industry; food processing has been divided into various sectors such as harvesting, separating, filling, packaging and labelling etc. and to take decision appropriate employees should be engaged in the decision-making. The engagement of employees in decision making creates a very positive impression and inspires them to work better. The employees start feeling as part of the company and their output significantly increases. This is also an effective measure to control the mutiny  of the labour in an industry.
	There are some groups who are in favour of the idea that management should not consider employees suggestions or ideas when they make decisions, in spite of views discussed above. Management responsibility could be a substantial reason behind the opponent's viewpoint. There are companies where it is believed that the higher management is responsible for coming up with the best decision and innovation for better a future because they believe employees add ideas or suggestions for their personal interests.
	In conclusion, undoubtedly, company managements have higher responsibilities to take plausibility of implementation for the healthier future; however, as far as I am concerned, lower level worked force has immense experienced of their profession. Therefore, without any reasonable concern employees cannot be neglected and their decision and feedback should always be included while taking any decision for the company.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2157-large-shopping-malls-are-replacing-small-shops",
Essay 386:
	Cities are transforming in various aspects, one of them is shopping pattern. It is often suggested by many that traditional businesses should be replaced by mega shopping centres. I believe that large shopping malls offer a better shopping experience to city residents and help the government collect taxes efficiently. Therefore, I believe that this is a welcoming trend.
	To begin with, large shopping complexes bring different vendors under a single roof and offer a spectrum of products. As people in cities have less time to spend on shopping, mega shopping malls save their valuable time. Furthermore, such markets have various entertainment facilities including cinema halls, food court, children's play zone etc. which improve people's shopping experience and let them enjoy their time. All those amenities under the same building cannot be offered by small businesses.
	In addition, collecting taxes from scattered small shops is often unmanageable as there is no defined authority for the business entities. However, it is easier when the stores are under the market authority in a single building. In some countries, like Australia, the government gives a tax rebate to small businesses to let them grow, which consequently can have dire outcomes in the future as financial overturn cannot be justified with those cuts. Thus, small businesses do not have a wide appeal to people and nor do financially help local government.
	In conclusion, to conform to modern shoppers' demand and facilities, mega malls are emerging. This should be wholeheartedly welcomed as it offers a better shopping experience to people and ensures tax collection by the state.
Essay 387:
	Large supermarkets are gaining popularity in many countries. Some people argue that small local businesses are finding it extremely difficult to survive in the midst of swift growth and development of supermarkets and that the local communities would die out as the local businesses shut down. I completely disagree with this argument and will try to explain in this essay why so.
	The reasons for supermarkets becoming popular are manifold. Firstly, they provide a single platform to customers where they can purchase everything they need, ranging from groceries to clothing and more. Consequently, they do not have to make multiple stops at different stores to get the needful, hence, making shopping extraordinarily convenient. Secondly, they offer a number of facilities including car parking, toilets, deli counters, resting areas to make shopping a more comfortable and fun experience. Thus, pulling more and more customers and multiplying the business.
	As more people opt to shop at supermarkets, local businesses suffer loss and eventually shut down. However, that, in no way, result in local communities' death. Today's customers are resourceful and educated. They have the means of transportation and time to go to supermarkets as shopping has transformed into entertainment. Convenience stores, on the other hand, still have a chance to survive by relocating to an area where there is enough clientage. All in all, local communities can travel to supermarkets just fine and can easily survive in the absence of local convenience stores.
	In conclusion, supermarkets have given local businesses a tough time. In my opinion, local stores can relocate to carry on and even if they do not, local communities will survive by shopping at supermarkets because they are capable of doing so.
Essay 388:
	This is a true fact to consider that the present world has become a global village. Therefore, people are motivated to buy their necessities from the competitive market. As a result, a great number of shopping malls has established in the past two decades in almost all cities of the world. Considering this there are some analysts who hold an opinion that large shopping malls are replacing small shops, while others consider that, large shopping malls should not be replacing small shops. This essay will assertion both side of this contention before deducing a reasonable conclusion.  
	There are reasons for people to believe that large shopping malls are important to be established as multi stories shopping malls come with a large number of stores and other facilities under one roof.  First and foremost time saving from shopping from such multi-complex buildings could be a significant factor.  It may be defined as the majority of them prefer to go to the shopping malls rather than the single stores because a variety of options are available in one complex. For example, clothes, groceries, banks, pharmacies, cinemas, food courts, and restaurants etc. are all available under a single roof and people get better environment from such an establishment.  
	There are some groups who are in favour of single shops and opine that this trend should be continued. They have their reasons as well.  In spite of views discussed above regarding why large shopping malls are ideal to the modern society.  Parking problems could be a substantial reason behind the opponent's viewpoint. There including excursive crowding in the shopping complex, especially on weekends and holidays. As a result, shoppers have to spend a long time in the parking bays rather than shopping in small shops.  The prices in large shopping malls are often unreasonable and people end up purchasing more than they actually need. The large shopping malls are not often convenient for the lower and middle-class population.
	In last, undoubtedly, whether shopping in a large shopping complex or single small shops could be a matter of discussion; however, as far as I am concerned, big shopping malls have immense benefits to the modern society that outweigh the options and conveniences offered by the small shops.
Essay 389:
	It is true that the numbers of large malls have increased rapidly in the past few years, and many people believe that they are replacing the traditional shops. I personally feel that there should be some clear regulations about the design of malls in each city; therefore the existence of these shopping malls will not replace the small shops.  
	It is a fact that many large shopping malls are built in big cities these days, such as in Singapore, Jakarta or Tokyo. These giant malls offer various kinds of shops in one place; therefore people should not have to go to different places when they are looking for their needs. Then, these shopping malls are also equipped with air conditioner, so visitors will feel comfortable when they walk around the malls. And lastly, these shopping malls also being managed and monitored by security guards, therefore many people feel safe walking around in these malls.
	However, despite all the benefits of these large shopping centres, the existence of these shopping malls has some negative effects on small shops. Many property developers are building their malls near a traditional market, which affected the sales of many small and traditional shops. As more people choose to go to large shopping malls, the numbers of people who purchase at small shops become lesser and lesser each day. As a consequence, many of these shops owners have to close their business or have to reduce the number of employees.
	In conclusion, the number of mega malls is increasing these days, and some people believe that they will replace traditional markets. I personally believe that the existence of shopping malls will boost the economic growth of the city, but small shops also create many jobs opportunities as well. So it is the government task to make some strict regulations about the city’s layout, therefore the existence of large shopping malls and small shops will be appropriate.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2154-some-people-think-that-cities-are-the-best-places-to-live",
Essay 390:
	In this era of globalisation, the world has witnessed a paradigm shift in migrating and these days more rural inhabitants are becoming city dwellers. Choosing a place to live has been a matter of great concern from the time of antiquity. Urbanisation, being the buzzword of the day, few among the mass believe that urban sector forms the ideal place to thrive, whereas others favour rural life. Let us discourse below the pros and cons of life in a city to that of a countryside.
	The recent advancements in technology comfort the urban lifestyle in numerous ways. Means of transport and communication are explicit in cities compared to that of villages. Moreover, urban industries and companies offer huge opportunities to professionals and entrepreneurs. The younger generations prefer to live in the midst of city life and luxury rather than to be in a countryside. Another important aspect in this context would be the sea change in the medical field that happened in last few years, many of these advanced facilities are readily available only in cities. In addition to all these, city has become a social hub of the elite and affluent hence one could enjoy the privilege of being in acquaintance with them. To cite an example, one would find celebrities and politicians on the social clubs or parties, rather than a countryside’s get together.
	As it is being noted,  reasons are aplenty for one's decision to choose city over a village  to lead a life in the present scenario, another among them which needs a special mention here is in the quality of education that city offers. It is believed that education liberates people from social stigmas. An urban life on a global perspective is always coupled with well organised and qualified educational system compared to the rural side. A city would be a favourite place to find efficient schools, universities and research centres when weighed against a village side.
	On the contrary, rural lifestyle bestows one's closeness to nature and is free from the hazards of urbanisation. Health wise, rural inhabitants are less exposed to various environmental hazards, like pollution for instance. Moreover, the tranquillity maintained along the countryside is another positive feature of rural habitation. Finally, the family and social bonds in villages are known to be more concrete. Separations on basis of urban gizmos like communalism and social status are seldom there.
	In the ultimate analysis, from the above discussion, it would be ideal to state that both urban and rural habitation has its merits and demerits, however, choosing a place to live should be prioritized on individual requirements, an ideal exemplification would be that of an IT professional who should become a part of a city for his career betterment, whereas a farmer, would fit in a rural sector to prosper. Being a part of an urban society since childhood, I would like to be in the same boat for the rest of my journey.
Essay 391:
	People have different opinions about living places. Certain people like to live in the country area while others choose to stay in the city centre. Each place offers its own benefits and drawbacks and the following essay will discuss them in detail.
	On the one hand, a group of people prefer to live in the city centre because they believe that there are a lot of benefits living in the area. It is a fact that the city offers various kinds of facilities, such as shopping malls, universities, cinemas, hospitals and restaurants, therefore it would not be difficult for the city’s residents in finding education centres, foods or entertainments. Cities offer more job opportunities as most of the companies and industries are situated there. Apart from that, there are certain facilities that are present only in city areas like amusement parks, large shopping malls, better schools etc. However, living in the city has some negative sides as well. The common drawbacks are that the crime and air pollution rate in the city are commonly higher than the rural area. Therefore some people choose to move out of the city centre.
	On the other hand, some people think that the best place to live is in the rural area. It is believed that people who live in these areas have a healthier life because they breathe fresher air, they eat more hygienic and natural fruits and vegetables and they live in a more relaxed and quite environment. As a result, their life expectancy is longer than those who live in cities or towns. Despite its positive sides, living in remote areas have some disadvantages. Several people found that the quality of education in these areas is left behind, while others feel that it is hard for them to develop their careers, therefore they choose to move to big cities.
	In conclusion, living in the city or the countryside has its own positive and negative sides, and it depends on the preference of each individual. I personally choose to live in the city area to enhance my career and plan to live in the countryside when I retire.
Essay 392:
	These days, many people are quite concerned about choosing the right place to live their own life. In this essay, I will look at the pros and cons, aspects of living in large and crowded town compared to the countryside and draw a reasoned conclusion based on my ideas.  
	One of the most significant benefits of settling in a city is health care. Usually, there is well-functioning health care system available to citizens of the town such as hospital and clinics, with many specialised doctors and healthcare professionals. For example, in the city, it is very convenient to find physicians, dentists and nurses. In contrast, often habitants of the rural area have to travel all the way to the city to visit the professionals in the city. As a result, people who live in the countryside suffer from the lack of health care laboratories, hospitals and chamber of professional doctors which are not close to them and is one of the reasons people prefer to stay closer to city centres. Furthermore, a city offers better educational, recreational and employment facilities which are quite tough to find in a rural area.   
	However, the crime is the biggest challenge that inhabitants of a crowded city have to face. For example, murder, rape, theft, motor vehicle offence, drugs abuse, firearms & offensive weapon cases are more common in city areas than in a countryside. Even with criminal justice system and punishment by state law in cities, the rate of these heinous crimes is much higher there than any other part of the country such as villages and rural area. The rate of the crime is much less in a countryside than a city due to the less population and economic factors of that area. As a result, the people who live in a countryside are much protected against violation of their rights.
	In conclusion, both large towns and urban areas have some conveniences and drawbacks for its citizens.  Living location should ultimately be chosen depending on an individual's base on their professional job. For example, farmer ideally will choose the rural area and on the other hand, IT professional will prefer to be close to city centre.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2152-tudents-from-rural-areas-find-it-difficult-to-access-university-education",
Essay 393:
	As the enrollments of different higher institutions are increasing each year, more students coming from countrysides or rural areas are attending universities. However, some of them feel the education in the university is hard for them to comprehend regardless of the contents of courses or the assignments placed by instructors. Regarding this situation, people think higher education institutions should lower the standard or level of study so that rural students can access them easily.
	Admittedly, the education in higher institution sometimes really poses a tough situation on rural students. What they have learned or how they have processed the contents from school have to be changed once they get into universities. As a result of this, some of them are unable to adapt to the methods required to be used here. More frustratingly they might concern about dropping out if they could not continue their study. From this perspective, a higher institution should consider lowering the standard for rural students to keep the original pace of study.
	In addition, although universities are not the place where everyone can get involved in, in another word, once any pupils have been accepted by them, they are supposed to realise how tough the study would be, this really depends on the backgrounds of different pupils. Therefore, developing bridge programmes seems an efficient method for both rural students and schools themselves. Not only can pupils enhance their capacities for acquiring higher education, teachers can also fully learn about each individual student. This contributes to ease the burden on difficulties on students.
	However, to tackle this awkward circumstance means that schools are supposed to sacrifice to some extent. For instance, lowering standards for students from rural areas presents that the reputation that schools have obtained may be affected. More seriously, if this happened, the immediate impact on universities would be the loss of experienced teachers and funds raised by the local government.
	In conclusion, to alter the strategies for assisting rural students to access higher education is one of the most important implementations that universities should consider. However, schools have to address this issue discreetly or it would pose a threat to school’s reputation and their employment of staff. Establishing bridge programmes seems to be one of the feasible approaches for achieving the balance in the number of rural students in universities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2141-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-978-should-parents-be-obliged-to-immunise-their-children",
Essay 394:
	In spite of the fact that parents can make their decisions in terms of immunising or not immunising their children from deadly diseases, they have to feel a responsibility to their children. From my point of view, it must not be optional and all children have to be vaccinated.
	We all know that children who are less than 6 or 7 age are vulnerable to diseases and should have fatal results or big problems in their forthcoming future life if they are not protected from heinous diseases. Though these childhood illnesses might seem very simple, parents must pay attention to their children who are at these ages. By the way, it must not be voluntary for parents to decide what they must do. It is also the future of the country and the nation in terms of having a strong nation. Namely, children comprise the basis of education in the country, so children have a bulk and vital role in the country in terms of education and future. For this reason, governments have to make something special for that, such as legislations. These sorts of regulations will make parents feel responsible for their children.
	Children, who suffer from deadly diseases and get affected by that in future, actually start hating their parents. Think about how sad it would be when a child suffers from physical disability only because his parents decided not to vaccinate him in his childhood? That is something we never want to happen to our nation. Actually, there are also some families who want to immunise their children but haven't got sufficient budget to spend for that. In that way, governments have to undertake immunising such children and assign subsidies for those of children. People haven't got the rights not to vaccinate their children. This is not an option, this is a must. Because it is inhumane for both children and parents who might become the victim of deadly diseases. 
	To sum up, parents must be responsible for their children and they mustn't choose to immunise or not immunise, that should be a must for parents.
Essay 395:
	Every infant needs an aid of protection from any danger at their early age. One of the most predominant perils is absolutely illnesses. Any disorder can be able to face them with the risk of death, even a single flu because children are vulnerable and a potential target for viruses and other threatening creatures. Their immunity system is just started to grow and improve. If they are not fed well and protected from hazardous effects the immune system cannot thrive and the body will destroy soon.
	That's why they are in need of their protectors at certain ages of weakness. It is evident that these protectors are their parents or responsible relatives. Hands of kind-hearted and generous parents are especially given for that reason. From the birth to the age of being an individual, parents look after their children with great patience and attention.
	They devote their whole life to pay attentions to their protection like precious jewellery. This dedication includes health, happiness, culture and other qualities of their own personality. In front of those all health of their children is most crucial one. Kind-hearted parents always want their children to be healthy, because of that they immunise them very well. In their opinion, it is their obligation to do that. Unfortunately, some parents are in the other mind. They refuse to inoculate their children. It must be a scandal, because if parents decline to vaccinate them, then who should do the issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2140-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-977-in-cities-and-towns-all-over-the-world-the-high-volume-of-traffic-is-a-problem",
Essay 396:
	It is undoubtedly the case that urban areas around the world increasingly suffer from traffic congestion. In this essay, I will examine the reasons for this trend and suggest some practical policies the authorities could implement to reduce the level of traffic in our cities.
	The first step is to understand why traffic has increased in towns and cities. Broadly speaking, there are three main reasons for this. One is that cars have become more affordable for the average consumers and they are no longer a luxury item, but something that most families expect to own. A second reason is that public transport has become increasingly unreliable in recent years, not least because many bus and train services have been reduced because of the difficulty in funding them. The third reason is that society has, in general, become more mobile and this means more people are prepared to commute to work by car than they were before.
	The biggest causes of traffic jam lack of proper road and bridges in cities. If there is an additional way for buses and large trucks in cities, traffic jams reduce in cities.
	There is almost certainly no one solution to this problem given the complexity of its causes. However, one option has to be to improve the reliability of public transport to encourage people to take the bus or the train rather than get in the car. It would also be possible to discourage people from driving to work by introducing special tariffs for using the roads, especially during peak periods.
	In conclusion, there are a variety of different factors that have led to rising levels of traffic in urban areas. While it may not be possible to find a complete solution but actions should probably involve encouraging more use of public transports.Furthermore, taxes on private cars should be increased and eco-friendly transportation like bicycles should be promoted.
Essay 397:
	It is a fact that traffic congestion has become a serious problem for many cities and towns. More and more people get stressed with this situation, as they have to spend hours after hours in the street and lose their productivity and valuable time. The following essay will discuss the cause of the issue and some of the solutions that can be taken into account.
	For a number of reasons, traffic has become the main problem of many cities and towns all over the world. Firstly, as the population growth in many metropolis cities such as in Shanghai, New York, Dhaka and Bangkok has increased rapidly in the past recent years, it means that there are more cars in the city. Secondly, in some cities, such as in Jakarta or Manila, public transportation facilities are poorly managed therefore the people choose to drive their own vehicles. Lastly, in many countries such as Indonesia or China, the economic development is not widely spread, and a result a lot of people from rural areas move to cities which would create traffic related problems. The number of commuters in many cities has increased dramatically but in proportion, the total number of roads remained almost same as it was in the past. Many people are buying private cars and it is not unusual that many families own more than one car. These two reasons with the poor traffic management system in many cities cause unmanageable traffic jam nowadays.  
	However, there are several things that the government could do to reduce the problem. The state government should provide decent, safe and clean public transportation facilities, therefore more people would use public transports, instead of driving their own private vehicles. And then the government should develop new industrial and commercial areas outside of the city. It is hoped that some people would move to these new areas, and would reduce the density problem. The government could provide some bicycle lane, as it brings a lot of benefit for the people and the city itself. Bicycles as the primary means of communication could reduce traffic. It is also safer for the environment and has positive effects on the rider’s health. The roads and highways should be expanded and new roads should be introduced. Severe punishment should be imposed for violating traffic rules and restriction should be implemented in private car ownership. Finally, improved traffic system should be introduced and unfit cars and vehicles should be removed from the streets.
	In conclusion, cities and towns all over the world are facing serious traffic problem these days. It is mainly due to of the population growth, density and poor public transportation facility. But there are several things that the government could do to address the problem, such as improving the public transports, developing new areas and persuade its resident in using bicycles.
Essay 398:
	In today's world, traffic congestion is an extremely difficult problem for commuters around the globe. A 10 minutes office to home ride had become a pathetic 40 minutes or even longer ride, spending one's valuable time on roads. This essay will explore some of the causes and recommended practices to reduce this issue.
	The possible sources for increased traffic could be from several factors. Firstly, I consider migration of people from urban areas to cities in search of making a living as one of the primary reasons. This, in turn, leads to increased number of vehicles on the road. Based on a recent study conducted by the Transportation Department of London, there is a 20% surge in volume of car sale in the United Kingdom each year over the last decade. Secondly, failing to adhere to traffic rules is another factor contributing to the waiting time due to traffic.
	The government and public should be pragmatic about the actions that will solve this issue. The government should encourage using public transport instead of personal vehicles because in my country one will hardly find a co-passenger in a car other than the driver. In addition, the traffic control department should implement stringent traffic rules, for instance, diverting traffic in peak hours on a particular avenue.
	In summary, a rapid rise in the car users is one of a major reason for increasingly pathetic traffic congestion. The government and public should cooperate to reduce the number of vehicles by using public transport.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2139-international-entertainers-often-get-paid-millions-of-dollars",
Essay 399:
	Universal entertainers, containing sports individuals, frequently acquire millions of dollars in a single year. From my point of view, these devastating incomes are absolutely unfair while the world is dealing with a great scale of poverty. The solution for this type of matter undoubtedly must be established as soon as possible.
	When wealthy part of people started to incline attractive and dashing entertainment the entertaining agencies' jobs initialized to grow and improve. Improvements enhanced the scale of amusement sphere. Consequently, the supervisors and main individuals of this entity handled the currency circulation soon and easily. Today the rich spend a large amount of money on sport and entertaining facilities. for instances, in only 2 or 3 weeks long European Olympic Games millions of dollars are allocated by Azerbaijan's government this year. Although these games have many profits for a country, in my opinion, the disadvantages of this issue are more than offset by advantages.
	Maybe some people think that these enormous salaries for sports people and entertainers are the value of their effort and work. Nonetheless, I am on the side of people who are contrary to this kind of insight. And this contradiction is not arbitrary because people who suffer from famine, unfortunately, are the predominant part of our humanity. I believe it is not right to impose such amount of money and support to joys contributing it towards the relief for people who are in need of it.
	Nevertheless, I believe that people who are in aware of their environment's issues will do the right thing. In these days, some companies and entities which are built to solve these problems have undertaken to provide money and support for famine relief.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2138-nowadays-many-jobs-are-more-stressful-and-the-working-day-is-longer",
Essay 400:
	The ever increasing job competition, the pressure of constant deadlines, the technological dependency in jobs and people’s expectation to thrive in the workplace have changed the definition of professional life and most of the employees require to work harder and for long hours each day. In this essay, I will examine the reasons behind this work pressure and lengthy working hours and suggest some ways that the employers can help improve the condition.
	High competition in the job market is one of the reasons why jobs have become such stressful these days. Employers always have options for finding new employees and replace someone and this is why someone who has already been hired has to work hard to save his job. This naturally has negative psychological effects on employees. Employees have to work for longer hours to meet their performance target as the invisible threat of firing is there. Increasing competition caused by globalisation is another reason to make the workplace such stressful. Many small and medium business entities need to compete with other multinational companies and companies in developing nations where labour price is cheaper. The effect of this on employees is that they know they may be made redundant if the business they work for fails. This force the employees not only to work longer hours but also suffer from work-related stress and uncertainty. In most of the organisations, the employers these days set targets for the employees and most of the targets are hard to achieve. As a result, employees are forced to work beyond 10 hours per day and even on days-off. Finally, people’s expectation from the offices have reached to a higher position and people are ready to sacrifice their personal life for the sake of promotions. This shift of mind setup has also attributed to the increasing work pressure.
	Despite the higher competition in business, employers should ensure a healthy working environment and support their workers morally and financially in order to sustain in the long run. An organisation cannot survive without experiences and dedicated employees and constant fear of uncertainty cannot ensure a healthy workplace. Employers should encourage employees to work the regular hours and work overtime only when it is absolutely necessary. The employers should also encourage people who perform better and award them for their performance. The workers should be allowed to take breaks and should not suffer from anxiety of losing jobs. Finally, the employers should have a friendly relationship with the workers and have meetings to listen to their problem. If the employer can assure the employees that they are ready to help each other and their jobs are secured, they can then expect better outputs from the employees.
	In conclusion, higher competition in the job market, globalisation and people’s aim to reach higher are the main reasons for stress in the workplace and the employers have a lot to contribute to improving this situation. A healthy workplace is very crucial for the best performance by the employees.
Essay 401:
	It is a fact that working hours are getting longer and the work pressure is getting more intense these days. There are various reasons that have caused the situation and there are some things that employers can do to help their staffs. The following essay will discuss them in details.
	For a number of reasons, people’s working hours are getting longer and jobs are getting more stressful nowadays. Firstly, it is due to the tight competition in the labour market. As the supply of labour is higher than the demand, it means that there are more people who are looking for jobs and employers could be selective in hiring their potential employees. As a result, employers would select labours who are multiple talents, could work for long hours and could handle many tasks. Secondly, as business competition become tougher these days, companies are working in a more effective and efficient manners. Consequently, there will be less manpower in many companies, which means they only recruit selected people who can do many things at once and could work long hours.
	There are several things that employers could do to solve the problem. It is believed that exercises could reduce stress level, therefore many companies are providing fitness centre in their office these days. This facility can be used by their employees outside of the working hours for free and it is hoped that employees could maintain their health condition. And then, employers could also hire unpaid internship to assist their employees.  It is expected that with the assistance of internships, it would reduce the workload and working hours of employees.
	To sum up, it is a fact that works are more stressful and take longer hours these days. To solve the issue, there are some things that employers could do, and one of them is providing gym facilities to employees for reducing their stress level.  Another thing is that employers could also recruit unpaid internship to assist employees as it would reduce the long working hours.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2137-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-974-young-people-have-little-leisure-time-and-are-under-a-lot-of-pressure",
Essay 402:
	In recent years, youngsters live a sedentary lifestyle due to their lack of time to relax even to play around with their peers. Moreover, the school duties sometimes bring them in full of pressure. I strongly believe that this case is caused by the parental pressure and university competition. Therefore, this essay will look into the causes provided by some solutions.
	Parents sometimes bring pressure toward the children’s life since parents demand the children to pursue a higher future career. They tend to encourage children to spend their time for study, even they are not afraid to spend money for children education. For instance, parents will put the children into several courses which are relevant to their study. They believe that bringing children to the course will pose a help to master their studies at school. Therefore, there is no spare time for young people to enjoy their life.
	On the one hand, university competition force students to study much harder since university just recruits or accepts students who have higher grades.  Entering university level will create a high competition among others nationally even internationally. Moreover, the university has a high standard as a requirement. Consequently, to gain the standard, young people should make good preparation. Therefore, it sometimes makes young people under-pressure even depression. They will try to do something that enables them to gain their goals such as study a lot.
	As the result, the best solution to cope with these problems is the awareness of parents. Parents should realise that their actions can cause anxiety and stress among the children. Therefore, bring back the role of parents is essential in this case. They should understand the children’s condition thus children can use their spare time to stress-relief such as go on vacation or hang out with their peers. Additionally, affirmative action is needed to overtake the university case. The government should expand the number of universities, thus it can reduce the competition level and young people would then have a variety of choices. As the result, youngsters would be able to spend their teenage time with joy and happiness. 
	To sum up, the understanding between parents and children will bring a beautiful harmony and followed by a support from the government. Therefore, it is easy for youngsters to suffer from this problem.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2130-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-973-the-older-generations-tend-to-have-very-traditional-ideas",
Essay 403:
	It is true that the older generation, in most of the cases, adheres to many traditional values, belief and old way of thinking and many of these are not suitable to make the youngsters ready to take challenges in this modern era. There are still some values and traditions that are useful and older generation should pass
	those values to the young people.    
	To begin with, many ideas that older generation still finds unavoidable have become less relevant for the young generation and it is a good thing that the youngsters have less faith on the superstitions our forefathers believed in. Besides, the traditional belief of educating a boy and upbringing a girl so that he becomes the breadwinner and she can become a good housewife is no longer accepted by the modern era. The traditional belief of fixed role for men and women are no longer applicable to this advance era where people believe in gender equity. Furthermore, the modern generation no longer agrees to take the fact that a student has to study to become either a doctor or an engineer. According to the old belief, these two are the careers someone must have. With the time, study and career have become quite different and the older tradition is no longer acceptable now. Moreover, young adults these days choose their life partners and decide when to marry which contradicts with the old tradition.        
	However, there are some traditional values that the youngsters should foster as those views are still beneficial and useful in this modern era. For instance, old generation strongly believes in the importance of being honest and they would rather die than to surrender to the corruption. If this generation can adapt to this single traditional value, the world would be a much better place. Our forefathers also valued the importance of working hard and taking pride in one’s dignity and work. These characteristics are ageless and should be passed to the new generation as well. We have become more materialistic and selfish these days while out older generation teaches us the value of family and society. The sense of community the senior people had are exemplary and would establish better family, social and cultural bonding.
	To conclude, youngsters have to be ready to embrace the changed of the modern era while nurturing the traditional values that teaches them to have better future.
Essay 404:
	It is sometimes argued that traditional lifestyles and behaviours which are favoured by the old generation have nothing to do with the training of youngsters in a way that may require living in a fast-paced world. I completely agree with this statement.
	In my opinion, traditions that had been settled by our ancestors are absurd to get considered in this revolutionised world. To take a living style of our predecessors as an example, teenagers in past centuries were bound to remain in nucleus families. However, younger generations are more likely to live independently nowadays which helps them to develop a variety of attributes in their personalities ranging from a higher level of confidence and a sense of responsibility to deal with the real world. These hands-on experiences help them to be better trained and prepared for the challenges in the real world. If these offspring were forced to follow the conventional ideology, they would have missed these much-needed traits which are crucial in becoming a successful member of an egalitarian society.
	It is also argued that conventional values can restrict teenagers from thinking globally. So, it will make them the narrow-minded adults in terms of accepting different people from different cultures and backgrounds. For instance, our forefathers were highly reluctant to do shared business with traders of different ethnic groups of people in their time period. This ended up in limited trades. Therefore, I would argue that teenagers should be given the broader view of this universe with immense awareness of global issues, different languages as well as conflict resolution. It will allow them to broaden their horizons in regard to the understanding of this increasingly interconnected world. As a result, a prestigious place in the job market and a prosperous future will be assured for them.
	In conclusion, I believe that traditional ethics should be ignored as it cannot assist in making our younger generation the productive members of a competitive society.
Essay 405:
	It is true that many older people believe in traditional values that often seem incompatible with the needs of younger people. While I agree that some traditional ideas are outdated, I believe that others are still useful and should not be forgotten.
	On the one hand, many of the ideas that elderly people have about life are becoming less relevant for younger people. In the past, for example, people were advised to learn a profession and find a secure job for life, but today's workers expect much more variety and diversity from their careers. At the same time, the 'rules' around relationships are being eroded as young adults make their own choices about who and when to marry. But perhaps the greatest disparity between the generations can be seen in their attitudes towards gender roles. The traditional roles of men and women, as breadwinners and housewives, are no longer accepted as necessary or appropriate by the most of the younger people.
	On the other hand, some traditional views and values are certainly applicable to the modern world. For example, older generations attach great importance to working hard, doing one's best, and taking pride in one's work, and these behaviours can surely benefit young people as they enter today's competitive job market. Other characteristics that are perhaps seen as traditional are politeness and good manners. In our globalised world, young adults can expect to come into contact with people from a huge variety of backgrounds, and it is more important than ever to treat others with respect. Finally, I believe that young people would lead happier lives if they had a more 'old-fashioned' sense of community and neighbourliness.
	In conclusion, although the views of older people may sometimes seem unhelpful in today's world, we should not dismiss all traditional ideas as irrelevant.
Essay 406:
	Nowadays, life has changed dramatically due to technological developments and globalizations. Many orthodox ways of spending lives have become obsolete and outdated. Some people still adhere to their traditions and cultures and are very reluctant to accept new and modern ways of lives. However, some people state that in order to compete with the current challenges, we should train our younger generation with the latest and trendy ideas.
	Firstly, people used to live in the joint family system in the past decades. This gave them the opportunity to learn from their ancestors about various aspects of life. There was always a special place for elder people of the family and younger used to obey and respect them and followed their instructions in every possible. Such kind of love and respect is hard to see in modern lifestyle. Adults nowadays have become more independent, and are showing less respect towards their parents’ decisions and other aspects of life.
	Secondly, there has been an element of care for their family and other members of the society in the past. Now, everyone first thinks about their own benefit and less likely to care about others. By this, I mean that new ideas contribute in making our generation selfish and egoist.
	Thirdly, there is a significant change in people’s behaviour in the modern world; they have less patience while doing any work. They have become less active and more opted towards shortcuts and less mean of work.
	Finally, I strongly believe that traditional ways for preparing younger generation is idle and have many in-deniable benefits than modern ways of handling youngsters.
Essay 407:
	The human being, due to the globalisation, undoubtedly have experienced a rapid change in recent years and that has impacted the way people live, interact and value old traditions to name aq few. In the bygone days, citizens adhered to the traditional ways of life and old ideas about how to face life in a different circumstance. But now, it is assumed that these ways are not very utilitarian for the adolescents in entering the modern life. Personally, I quite agree with the statement that these old ideas are not helpful in preparing the new generation to face an ever changing world in most of the cases and I have some reasons to support it which are explained in the following paragraphs.
	It is believed by many that technology in the past was not as same as it is right now. This made the older generations to usually learnt how to live, think and behave in the society through the available books or by the parents and teachers.  On the contrary, now, the youngsters can learn those from provided technology such as television and the internet. This causes the idea created among them are very different in which the oldest usually has traditional thinking. For instance, the old generation has an inclination to the early marriage which is no longer a better option in modern society. The older generation also despised the use of modern technology which is quite opposite among the modern generations.  
	On the other hand, nowadays, the world seems like experiencing an alteration not only in technology but also in the way people solve the occurring problem. To illustrate, the older are likely to cope the issues with sitting together and discussing but now some of the youngers have a tendency to deal with that problem via technology offered like telephone, the internet etc. This illustration makes clear that modern life is likely to use modern idea also. There is no harm in adopting and following good traditions but if that restricts the new generation from exploring potential areas, that should be avoided. For example respecting someone senior is a tradition is that young generation should still follow but accepting superstitious ideas and old traditions that deter new generations to proceed ahead should be avoided by all means. Since the people from past generation had been surrounded by the older traditions and they do not easily accept changes, I would say most of their ideas are not helpful for the upbringing and preparing a new generation to face a whole list of new challenges in life that were not present in the past.
	In a nutshell, because the older generation lived in a different time and faced different types of challenges in life from that of the youngsters today, they tend to have very traditional ways to live their life and ideas which seem not convenient anymore to be utilised in the new era.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2129-government-should-envisage-other-means-for-commuters",
Essay 408:
	Advancement in technology & people’s lifestyle has transformed human life. Have it been, entertainment, advertisement or the internet, nothing has been left untouched and the medium of transport to commute is no exception! Increasing population and number of vehicles on roads have expedited petrol consumption and this has accelerated the carbon mono oxide emission resulting global warming. I believe, government authorities must take this issue as precedence and must devise other ways to alleviate this issue.
	To begin with, sophisticated scientific advances have manoeuvred manifold alternatives to travel. As a result, dwellers germinate a propensity to own their own vehicles. This shift in tendency has mounted extra pressure on the environment. For an example, as per a survey from Road transport department of India, in the year 2015, the total numbers of private vehicles have doubled in numbers. Evidently, it has raised the bar of carbon emission in the nation. Thus, the government must take an action and devise measures to mitigate the issue.
	In addition, excess utilisation of petrol, diesel and other natural gases has imparted unprecedented pressure on nations. It can be corroborated by recent statistics of oil import of India, which is astounding 30% of total nation's gross domestic product. Thus, incumbency is on the government to envisage other means of travel such a battery-driven cars to curb the financial issues in the wake of excess petrol utilisation.
	To sum up, it is true that people would like to use their own vehicles to commute but owing to environmental threat and economical setbacks it is vital for the authorities to devise and develop alternatives ways to commute.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2128-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-971-only-experienced-executives-should-be-taking-decisions-in-a-company",
Essay 409:
	Nowadays companies are driven by executives and innovative ideas, which impart the impetus to the growth of a company. In the realm of innovative ideas, while many believe that only the higher management and the people with profuse experience in the industry should brain drain and envisage new ideas for the development of the organization, others, however, corroborate a strong case by claiming that ideas do not depend on the domain knowledge and year of experience and hence, even freshers or subordinates with a few years of work experience should be involved in the decision-making process of a company. Both the sides of the argument will be critiqued in the viability of the essay and an opinion will be made.
	On the one hand, it is true that in this competitive world there is a little scope of mistakes in the development stratagem of a firm. Thus, the onus is on high salaried executives to sit together and envisage for the growth of the company. Moreover, the vast experience they carry with them, there is no uncertainty involved in the process. For an instance, 60% of the organisations have confirmed in a survey that 15-18 years professionals have played an indispensable role in their market capturing plans.
	On the other hand, the world is transforming and ability to plan and devise innovations are not only instilled in senior executives but also it is infused in entry level employees as well. For instance, as per a magazine of innovative ideas, 70% of the startup ideas belong to freshers with age group 24-26 years. Moreover, revolutionary social networking site facebook is also framed and developed by a college fresher. Evidently, it can be confirmed that organisations should engage young brains as well in framing and producing new ideas.
	To sum up, though senior employee's decision will certainly bring on stable ideas, but the world is of innovations and fresh subordinates can certainly play a paramount role in the growth of a company and subsequently a nation.
Essay 410:
	It is believed by many that decisions should only be made by senior managements for the overall well-being of an organisation. They opine that only senior employees in higher positions know the company from top to bottom and only they have experience in taking decisions in struggling moments. To a certain point, I would agree with the statement, but I also believe that leaders should also share some of the jobs to the junior leaders as someday they would be making important decisions for the company.
	On the one hand, it is common that senior leaders are the ones who take decisions in a corporation. The main reason is that senior executives have passed through critical conditions with the company, so they could make wise justification and correct decision. Besides that, senior managements are the ones who will be responsible for the going concern of the corporation, which means that they must ensure that the company takes the right decision. They are trusted and proven to be wise in struggling moments of the company.  
	On the other hand, it is also important for senior management to delegate some of the decisions to the junior management. Firstly, if all decisions must be made by senior executives, they will be overwhelmed and it will take sometimes for a decision to be made. In certain cases, business decisions must be taken promptly, as otherwise the opportunity will be gone. Secondly, it is also important for companies to have a regeneration program, by involving the junior executives in decision making. It will be beneficial for both the senior and junior leaders when some of the senior executives are retired and must be replaced.
	In conclusion, some people believe that a company's decision should only be taken by senior management. To a certain extent, I would agree with it, as senior leaders have various experiences and they are the ones who are responsible for the company's future. But it is also important for them to delegate some of the decision-making jobs to the junior executives, as young leaders will also need to learn how to make good decisions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2126-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-970-the-older-you-get-life-becomes-more-complicated",
Essay 411:
	Ageing is a natural process happening to everyone. However, the bone of contention here is whether the life becomes easier or difficult as years pass by. In my opinion, though life seems to be challenging as we grow old, we could make it happier by making use our cognitive progression in our adult life.
	On the one side, most people are of opinion that year after year, our lives get complicated. According to them, during our teenage and adolescence period, we are not carried away by worries related to family, finance and responsibilities, but as we grow older, issues like fetching a job, earning, saving, looking after our parents and children become a millstone on our shoulders. Another significant reason cited for why ageing is problematic is the age-related disorders causing physical ailments like knee and joint pains, eye problems and indigestion.
	On the flip side, some people believe that ageing makes life more fruitful. They are inclined to a strong point that a man gets moulded at every stage of life and it is an essential improvement. Being immature and without worries doesn’t actually define happiness, they claim. Rather, every individual could use their natural boons such as intelligent quotient and emotional quotient as an aid to tactically solve the hurdles on their way. For instance, while we have a headache or fever, we might not know what to do during our younger ages but as we grow old we learn to take antibiotics or go to a physician. In the same way, every issue could be sorted out by everyone and life could be made happier. The freedom of decision making is a big difference in childhood and grownup time. When you grow older, you become the earning member and thus you have more freedom to take decisions. On the contrary, in childhood we rely on our parents earning and hence they take most of our decision and obliged us to follow their wish.  
	To conclude, the older we become, the happier we are by exploring the world and by taking up responsibilities and this is facilitated by the maturity factor of ageing.
	So, we need to move on with life happily.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2125-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-969-today-world-has-many-urgent-problems-and-solving-them-is-possible",
Essay 412:
	Globalisation, the buzzword of the modern era, has tremendously positive and negative impacts on today’s world. Some people say that the world has many urgent issues to be considered, however yet another group argues that these problems can be solved easily through the cooperation of different nations. The focus of this essay is to scrutinise the problems and solutions by economic and social perspectives and rule out the writer's opinion.
	First and foremost, from the economic point of view, half of the world is facing a major financial crisis. Financial equilibrium around the world could only be possible with the help of developed countries. Very often underdeveloped countries export their natural resources in cheapest rate for costly technical products and thus fall into debt. To be clear, to resolve these debts country takes loans from World Bank and this continues as a cycle. These kinds of financial burden can be reduced by taking natural resource in the good rate by developed nations.
	Secondly, when the problems are taken in social perspectives, it is huge in number. One of the main problems is crime and corruption. Increased rate of this has turned the earth into an evil planet. To be precise, the increase in population has affected the resources inversely proportional thus poverty, unemployment extra has stuck the underdeveloped world.
	The environmental issues are global and no matter which countries are contributing more to pollute the world, all countries would face the consequence. Hence a global bonding and cooperation to solve such urgent issues are required. The developed countries as well as the developing and under developed countries can all work together to reduce the air and environmental pollution of the world. However, some people argue that help from different part of the world cannot solve these kinds of urgent issues from the root itself but only through the collective management of each country can bring about the changes right from the basic level or foundation. Even though helping hand given by the nations could help solve the problems but it takes time thus for a sudden change cooperation from countries will work out within time.
	To sum up, solving problems are always fast and effective in a team than in individual thus nations co-operation help solve the urgent problems; the government of a country should also take a role in solving the issues which will boost the strength eradicating international problems.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2124-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-968-education-is-a-critical-element-of-the-prosperity-of-a-nation",
Essay 413:
	Technological advancement and transformation in social stature have revolutionised human life. Has it been for the application of the Internet, smartphones, bleeding-edge technological online applications, every facet of human life has been touched and impacted! These cutting edge transgressions need an educated population to utilise and enhance their lifestyle. Thus, the argument that education is mandatory for a prosperous nation holds ground on below major rationales.
	To begin with, application of internet and latest communication mediums such as email and social media requires an educated people with understanding to use them. It is not possible for illiterate audiences to procure the profound usage of such devices. For an instance, as per a report from international technological advancement institute of India, smartphones and email communication has not been able to flourish in African nations where literacy level is below 20%. Evidently, it is obligatory for the citizens of a nation to be educated and aptly accept the cutting-edge technological instruments in their life and assist in the development of the nation.
	In addition, natural resources in a country are limited. Admittedly, it is pivotal for the nation to exhaust them with contemplation. This is possible only when the denizens are adequately educated and informed about it is consequences: if these are not consumed with cogitation. For an instance, a nation will be able to flourish if the people are using private vehicles appropriately and as a result assisting the nation to reduce the national expenses in importing the fuel. Thus, it can be corroborated that education of the citizens is vital.
	To sum up, it is true that in this world of highly extensive technology and limited fossil resources, it is mandatory for a country to devise an efficacious education system to educate people as the literate population is an imperative constituent for the development of a nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2123-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-967-governments-need-to-build-more-roads-in-metropolitan-cities",
Essay 414:
	Advancement of the world has brought tremendous development in the transportation system, but in developing and undeveloped countries, increases in private vehicles has become the main reason of traffic blocks. Some people argue that the government should take initiatives in building more roads to solve this problem but some others argue building road is not the right solution. However, I tend to agree with the latter statement that construction of new roads is not the only and proper solution for it.
	First and foremost, government’s initiative to make new roads for reducing the heavy traffic in metropolitan cities is not the way but it is the wastage of government funds which should be used for the basic purpose of the society. To be precise, building new roads instead of limiting private vehicles will do no effect on traffic flow. For example, a country like India has to give more priority to the basic needs of low-income society such as in healthcare, employment, education more instead of developing road system which is of least important for the development of a country.
	Moreover, one of the other reasons why it is not a right solution to build new roads is that it is wastage of land resource. To be clear, construction of new roads will take away acres of land from agriculture which affect the economy of the farmers that lead to impact the revenue of that particular place. However, the argument of building new roads to reduce heavy traffic by government is mainly because of wastage of time and fuel spent in the traffic blocks but if the same traffic can be managed by endorsing new rules to limit private vehicles and encourage and improve public transport facility which can reduce heavy traffic to a larger extent.
	To sum up, after analysing the argument of building roads by public sector and the opposite view that it is not the only right solution, it is evident that if government take initiatives to control the number of private vehicles by increasing taxes and parking charges, and also by developing public transportation system it can not only control heavy traffic but also its will be a great help for the next generation by saving fuel, time and life from accidents.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2122-people-are-living-longer-than-the-past",
Essay 415:
	As the world's economy has grown considerably, earning potential amongst people has increased at a quicker rate. Besides, the advancement in technology and medical research have made it possible to cure many diseases. Thus these have enhanced people's lifestyle. Moreover, medical developments have also affected the human health condition very positively and this gives a longer life expectancy to people. Many people think that increased average life is beneficial for the society. However, others criticise it and think that this is negative for the world. In this essay, both of these views are analysed before a logical conclusion is reached.
	The medical advancement, innovation and scientific research on deadly diseases have made it possible for people to live longer than the previous generations. The improved lifestyle, globalisation and better medical facilities have increased the average life expectancy in many countries. The scarcity of foods and shelter was much more in the previous generations and famine was common in the last century but not anymore. People have better lifestyle and information at their fingertips. As a result, their health condition has enhanced and so has their life expectancy.
	Consequently, the ratio of the older population has increased in many countries. That creates a pressure to some extent on a country's economy. For example, countries like Japan have a huge population of 60-70 years old who cannot actively contribute towards the economic growth of the country but the government needs a huge budget to support them. This has even led to a shortage of manpower in different sectors in some countries. Moreover, the government also needs to provide schemes for elderly people like pension schemes as well as other economic benefits for them. This is often a challenge in a developing or less-developed country. Thus the negative impacts of increased life expectancy can not be ignored.
	However, there are certain benefits of longer living that we must take into consideration before supporting or opposing it. For instance, If elderly people get involved in the decision-making process and in professions like politics, teaching, writing, mentoring, the country can be benefitted immensely. The older generation can pass their history, traditions and experience among the young generation and  that would always be beneficial. For instance, in Indian grandparents have a great importance while taking any important decision. Additionally, they can also be able to take care of any child of the family. Obviously, children require love, lesson, teaching and sympathy which they can get from their grandparents. From this relationship among family members can become stronger. It is quite evident that longer life has more benefits than drawbacks. The experience of older people could be used in education, politics and in other fields to enhance the overall economy of a country. Older people can give better suggestion to address a difficult situation from their experience and those experiences should be used in family and society. They preserve the manual way of living live and that has a great value to our society.
	After analysing, pros and cons of longer life expectancy, it has been proved that increases life gives more benefits to the society. I, therefore, strongly oppose the viewpoint that longer life trend is negative for the society. It is hoped that this trend will be effective in foreseeable future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2116-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-965-increasing-car-use-is-contributing-to-global-warming",
Essay 416:
	It is evident that the mass car ownership is associated with several environmental and health issues, including global warming, lung cancer, and anxiety. Although the convenience of possessing a car has made it almost an inexorable trend, there are measures that governments can take to discourage unnecessary car use.
	The first, and also the most effective measure could be to make it expensive to own and use a car. This measure can be implemented by taxing heavily on initial car purchasing, congested roads using, and petrol consuming. By doing so, people might start considering reducing their car use, especially for the unnecessary trips. However, there is a drawback of this approach that it is often the poorer residents will suffer from the increased cost. The poor might have to cut some necessary trips because of the financial burden, whereas the rich ones would be able to maintain their convenience from car use. Therefore, this measure may be effective, but not fair to the poor.
	Another way to discourage people from using their cars is to encourage them using alternative transports, such as trains, buses, and bicycles. Evidence has shown that cities, such as Tokyo and Paris, where better public transport systems are offered, car use rates are lower and roads are less congested. People will only be most willing to use public transports when they are almost or even more convenience than driving their cars. Therefore, governments could invest more in infrastructure and transport system design and construction in order to provide adequate and competitive alternatives.
	To conclude, increasing the cost of having and using a car could be an effective way to reduce the car use. However, improving and encouraging the use of public transports could be the better and more sustainable way to achieve this goal.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2115-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-964-multicultural-societies-bring-more-benefits-than-drawbacks-to-a-country",
Essay 417:
	Thanks to more widely open policies in economy and immigration of many countries, the 21st century has witnessed the surprisingly increasing formation of multicultural societies where a varying number of ethnic people stay together. Although it has both positive and negative effects to a country, it seems to me that we are more likely to obtain more benefits than disadvantages from this kind of society.
	The more diverse the residents of a country are, the more cultural values they can share to enhance their awareness and knowledge of culture and tradition. People will get more directly engaged in understanding unique customs or rituals, life and work attitudes from their foreign neighbours, colleagues and friends. As a consequence, they enable to adapt the cultural diversity in order to develop their interpersonal skills and live closer to other cultures without having to live in person in another country.
	Additionally, once people can know more about each other through everyday interactions at work or schools, the severe conflicts or even wars will be remarkably alleviated. It is undeniable that there might have some drawbacks that multicultural communities bring to a country. Racial disparity accelerated, the wealth-poverty gap deteriorated, different culture tensions are specific cases for what are the so-called drawbacks, but the inhabitants can overcome these when the government implement friendly-ethnic peoples’ policies, as well as the dwellers, have positive thoughts and behaviours to live compatibly with others.
	Stimulating multiculturalism in a society will offer numerous advantages to a country rather than undesirable effects. Therefore, each individual should savour every rewarding moment of living in their multicultural community and proudly spread their unique traditions to international friends so as to increase the diversity.
Essay 418:
	It is believed that multicultural environments bring many advantages for many people, since the variety of races, cultures and traditions will make the country become unique and attractive. Although, multicultural societies have some negative issues, but I do believe that the positive sides are greater than the negative ones.
	On the one hand, countries that have multicultural communities have some similar problems. Firstly, it is common that discrimination would have been the main issue. Some groups of people feel that their races are the most superior one; therefore they would underestimate certain kinds of races. Secondly, there is always a debate about religious activities, as some groups might have extreme faith in their religions and would annoy other believers. One of the classic examples would be  the debate of religion in Israel between the Jewish and the Palestinian, which have caused so many casualties.
	Despite all the drawbacks, multiculturalisms will bring many advantages for the government and the people, if they are well managed. Multicultural societies make the city become alive and fascinating, as some sides of the city shown Asiatic cultures, while on the other side it shows Western civilisations. This situation makes the city becomes unique and would attract tourists from many parts of the world. As a result, it will boost the tourism industry, create a lot of employments and generate income tax for the governments. There are many multicultural cities that are well known, such as Sydney, Toronto and Singapore and they are considered as advanced cities, due to the proper management of its local government.
	In conclusion, it is undeniable that multicultural environment has its own advantages and disadvantages. In my point of view, I do believe that multicultural societies have more benefits than its drawbacks if they are managed properly by the government.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2114-social-welfare-payments-are-essential-to-protect-the-rights-citizens-have",
Essay 419:
	The system that a country is regulated is an inherent part of it. However, sometimes it can be abused by corrupted people. Nonetheless, it does not mean this system is inefficient. By these systems, the government provides the welfare of the society.
	Residents in a democratic society all need the protection of their rights. The essence of their rights is the existence the welfare and security service. For example, the government should provide general practitioners who look after all the health issues of a family for each family. And also the government should take the responsibility of the requirements of the old, the invalid and orphan children. It is also the obligation of the government to find jobs for certificated and well educated, but unemployed individuals of the country. At the same time, there should be the proper jobs they want. If it is not possible, a guaranteed minimum income should be defined for them to live comfortably.
	In my opinion, abuse of the system which underlies the basis of country's policies must be prevented. It is a little difficult to avoid the abuse, but I believe some prevention measures can be taken. By this way, the system would be more reliable.
	Minimum wage and earning by citizens in a democratic society reduce the discrimination and poverty and stable social condition would prevail. The minimum income also increases the social bonding as many people participate the social cause spontaneously.
	To sum up, in spite of the fact that abuse of the system is existing, social welfare supplements and security services do their jobs to protect the citizen rights and to create a democratic society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2112-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-962-few-people-devote-time-to-hobbies-nowadays",
Essay 420:
	The leisure activities and time spent for this has plummeted in the recent decades. There are several reasons for this; such as addiction to digital gadgets and the desire to acquire materialistic prosperity. It is undeniable that this trend has serious impacts on every single person and the community as a whole.
	At the outset, there are two main causes for the gradual waning of hobbies these days. Firstly, the revolutionised digital era makes people as couch potatoes in front of laptops, smartphones, the internet and social media. So obviously the citizens become less interested in carrying out an activity apart from these. Secondly, In an aspiration to achieve materialistically prosperous, they extend their working hours thereby cutting down the time spent on hobbies. For example, my uncle who has been a passionate cyclist for years hardly does cycling after being placed in one of the top multinational companies.
	Incidentally, the above reasons have detrimental effects on the masses. The most significant impact on the individuals is the reduction in the physical activity. This would lead them to an unbalanced lifestyle; thereby making them the victims of diseases like high blood pressure, obesity, high cholesterol and heart attacks. This is because of the deposition of fats in the body which might naturally cause obesity after a period of time. Another connected effect is the loss of productivity in the workplace even after working for hours and hours together since the employees would deprive of ways to channelize their stress.
	To conclude, the contemporary changes like digital addiction and work stress has lessened the time spent for hobbies. These trends not only cause health hazards like heart attacks and obesity but also reflected as inefficiency in work. Everyone should allocate time for the hobby that interests them. This will help them lead a stress-free and healthy life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2111-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-961-people-should-use-public-transport-to-support-pollution-control-initiatives",
Essay 421:
	Advancements in technology and infrastructure have revolutionised the human life and public transportation is no exception. Nowadays the government transportations are rationalised. Does it mean that the dwellers should not use private vehicles to travel? I believe, owing to excellent commutation systems worldwide, citizens should avoid using their own cars. This opinion is reliant on below arguments.
	To begin with, on account of "global warming" warnings, various nations have developed a robust transport system to reduce the number of private vehicles on the road and subsequently to alleviate the greenhouse gas emissions. It can be confirmed by the environmental department's report from India. As per the statistics in the report, if the people utilise only 60% of the public transports then the pollution will reduce to 40% in metro cities. Thus, denizen must support the initiatives by travelling via public transportations.
	In addition, public transports have generic dustbins to support the rubbish while travel, which may not be possible in private cars. For an example, if people commute by personal vehicles they will throw out the rubbish outside on the road, which will cause the pollution and sometimes even block the sewage system of the city. For an instance, recent sewage blockage in Mumbai, India was on account of rubbish blocking the pathway. Thus, commuting with government vehicle will assist in controlling of rubbish and assist legislators in reducing the pollution.
	To draw the conclusion, in the view of mitigating issues of global warming and rubbish packages on the roads, people must travel by public transport and make earth a better place to live in.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2110-excessive-population-increase-is-raising-the-pressure-on-earth",
Essay 422:
	Advancement in technology and social revolutions have opened various avenues for the humankind. People are exploring each and every viable option produced by the Earth for their livelihood and luxury. Have it been an excess utilisation of electricity, water, fertile lands for agriculture, or natural gas resources, mother earth has been exploited to a great extent! In apropos of the argument, though I agree that dwellers can spend natural resources with appropriate concoction, notwithstanding I am convinced that government must pass legislation to prevent overuse of natural resources.
	To begin with, the world population has increased at a multifold rate in the past three decades, which has increased the usage of natural resources throughout the world. These are limited in quantity, so they should be used with adequate deliberation, else it is certain that the human has to live without them in coming years or so. This can be confirmed by the report from the environmental department of India that has warned the human to use water and coal in limited amount to conserve them for future. Hence, the human must act intelligently to prevent the shortage of mandatory ingredients of life.
	Nevertheless, the responsibility of using the natural resources prudently should not fall only on citizens but also on a government. It is a government's duty to pass obligations to use such resources sensibly. If the lawmakers can pass proper laws to save the mother planet, then residents will certainly follow it. Evidently, it will help optimise the expenditure of natural constituents. For instance, nobody would use personal vehicle to commute if the government had the provision of fine on using them. Thus, the cabinet must control the overexploitation using their lawmaking ability.
	To sum up, while deliberate usage of natural resources is a liability of every responsible citizen, but it is the government that can derive it forcefully.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2109-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-959-sports-events-get-the-nations-together-and-help-alleviate-the-violence",
Essay 423:
	Human is a social being. However, in the recent years, owing to terrorism and increment in the violence, characteristic of human as a friendly species is transforming. Some people believe that similar to ancient times, even today sports events extenuate the global riots and assist in maintaining the harmony. I believe, it is true and it must flourish across the globe.
	To begin with, worldwide game events redirect the focus of every nation towards the preparation of the event. As a result, the global show off of supremacy is alleviated. It can be confirmed by the recent world cup event whereby, total worldwide violence was reduced to 10%. Thus, on account of these statistics, it is evident that global game events are propitious to the world.
	In addition, due to sport, majority of the nations cross borders and play with each other, which sometimes pave the way for negotiations among the nations and impart the impetus to a mutual agreement. For instance, in the recent cricket tournament, the Prime Minister of India and Pakistan had inked an agglomeration to fight against terrorism. Evidently, prominence of game events in mitigating the global issues cannot be neglected. Sports events are friendly competitions that bring the sportsmen and the nations together.  A major victory in a large completion has proven to reduce the international tension and difference. Many times these short of winning lessen the internal political issues a country has. When sports events get popular, young people get attracted to participate in sports rather than doing crime activities. From this point of view, sports play a great role to bring nations together and reduce the crime and violence.
	To sum up, similar to ancient times game events still play a vital role in stamping out global harmony, as it is an opportunity for nations to divert the focus from violence to such events.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2108-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-958-people-are-becoming-more-materialistic-than-ever",
Essay 424:
	In the wake of globalisation and technological advancements, people have abundant opportunities to excel in their career and earn more money. Have it been political, engineering or medical regime, every professional is participating in the race of competitive markets! Does it mean human has transformed into a materialistic creature? This is a subject of dissension. In apropos of the argument, I am in a consummate accord with it and I believe denizens prefer luxury and lavishness and they are happy to sacrifice humanity for it.
	To begin with, nowadays people are educated than ever and competitive as well. However, there are lesser jobs to employ individuals. Thus, lack of demand has made the competition among people imperative and as a result, they have lost humanitarian values and converted materialistic. For an instance, as per a survey by the human values department in the USA, 70% of people confirmed to give up human values for higher growth opportunities. Admittedly, it can be contended that people prefer future prospects to moral and human values.
	In addition, development of manifold electronic and daily usage gadgets have germinated a desire of prosperity among dwellers. Everyone is keen to furnish their homes with new furniture, latest electronic devices to stamp out their place as an emblem of richness. Evidently, it has developed a mindset of materialistic attainment among the denizen.
	To conclude, owing to technological and social revolution, it is evident that the humankind is transforming in nature and this phenomenon will go on due to the development of new products and human's accelerating desire to own them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2106-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-957-the-crime-rate-among-teenagers-has-increased-dramatically",
Essay 425:
	Nowadays, youngsters are engaging in delinquent activities, which cause pressure in the society. It can be ascribed to the lack of parental supervision and the negative influences of peers. However, this social problem can be tackled by the employers and parents.
	Primarily, is it often said that youngsters may opt to negative vices if parents do not monitor their activities. Evidently, there are parents who have a hectic schedule in their workplace, thus neglecting the responsibilities to their children. Because of inadequate guidance, these youngsters socialise with other people in the society. For instance, in school, children develop a relationship with their friends as it is considered their second home. A group of friends shares the same habits and passions such as venturing to illegal substances and criminal behaviours. It might be their way to retaliate to their parents, who do not spend time with them. These children may eel resentment due to the fact that they might have the feeling of being unloved and unwanted. Therefore, they will perform nefarious actions such that they will gain the attention of their parents, and make them regretful for being preoccupied to their employment.
	However, it can never be denied that this social dilemma can be addressed by the parents and the employers. First of all, parents can give more attention to their children by having a weekly family outing to different places. For example, they could eat together in a luxurious restaurant or watch a movie in order to regain the aloof relationship. These parents can show to their children that they are important despite their busy schedule. Secondly, employers can curtail the employment hours of those employees who have children. As a result, these workers can spend more time with their children.
	To conclude, there is an escalation of crimes conducted by youngsters, who have a lacking in supervision from their parents. Nevertheless, it is apparent that managers can help those employees, who have children, to allocate more time to their family. It is very likely that frequent family bonding can eradicate the negative behaviours of their children. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2105-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-956-studying-the-english-language-in-an-english-speaking-country-is-the-best-option",
Essay 426:
	Learning the English language in a country where people speak English is a very advantageous option, although not the only way. Personally, I completely agree with this statement, because living in English spoken country has a lot of benefits in terms of mastering this language.
	Learning English is easier in an English-speaking country because the people around you are speaking English and makes it easy to adjust to English accent and also sentence patterns. For instance, it is very hard to learn English accent without listening to English. Besides living in English speaking country will enrich your vocabulary and grammar and that enhancement will occur spontaneously. And you can ask anything about the language that you have doubts about. You are bound to speak in this language and that would give you an excellent opportunity to enhance your speaking skill.
	On the other hand, it is not the only way to learn a language. There are a lot of books that you can utilise. English radio programmes or TV shows are best options to learn the language. So, it will help you increasing your listening skills. In addition, nowadays, the internet is widespread and also a superiority in our world. Thereby, the internet comprises all kind of information and it will help you about your doubts. It is evident that there are enough programmes for speaking with somebody in which it will improve your speaking skills.
	To sum up, learning English in an English spoken language will make it easy to study but there are a lot of ways that can be used for learning this language.
Essay 427:
	The English language is an international language which dominates almost all relationships between countries. Therefore important people need to speak the English language fluently. In addition, simple people should know English. Firstly it is good to be able to speak another language as well as your mother tongue. And also when you visit an English-speaking country, you will need to know English. Learning English while living in a country like UK, USA, Australia, Canada etc. is a very good option but in my opinion, there are other effective ways to learn it as well.
	But of course, the best and the most efficient way of studying the English language is still to live and spend most of your time in an English-speaking environment. By this way, you are induced to speak and study English with its actual speakers. If there is a chance to study English in an English-speaking country, it is the best scope that a person can ever have.
	However, in my opinion, it is not the only opportunity to study English. Because there are good enough programs that are applied by well-educated teachers all around the world. All you need is the perseverance that induces to hardworking. Thereby you can study whatever you want wherever you are by trying hard.
Essay 428:
	There is no doubt that large numbers of people are travelling English speaking countries to pursue their education. Some people argue that foreign countries have more modern and latest teaching methodologies and have trained and professional staff to educate students. Students also get an opportunity to interact with local people that will help them to improve their communication skills in English. Others claim that people can also learn English in their country effectively and efficiently by using online resources, exploring books, visiting libraries and taking help from teachers. I believe that foreign countries immensely help to achieve desired langue skills.
	Nowadays, English has become an essentials constituent of the educational curriculum in non-English speaking countries, all institutions have adopted this change because of its undeniable benefits. Government and private sectors are making efforts to train their people in English by providing them various learning options that are easy and cheaply available within the country.
	On the other hand, learning in foreign countries is more convenient. One of the reasons is that being pioneer, they are well aware of the art of delivering knowledge and other learning techniques. Furthermore, people will get the chance to meet and communicate with local people and explore their cultures, that will help them in understanding language more.
	To sum up, I would like to say that studying and living in foreign country dramatically increased their knowledge and information about the language, which would be rather difficult and less effective in their native nation. However, accommodation, food and medical expenses could impede one’s dedications towards learning in English speaking country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2103-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-955-modern-buildings-change-the-character-and-appearance-of-towns-and-cities",
Essay 429:
	With the rapid development of architectural advancements and the dramatic increase in modernization, many countries have allowed constructing more and more modern buildings that have created significant changes in character and appearance of the living areas. In my opinion, this is unlikely to deteriorate culture and the suggestion that new high-rise buildings should follow the traditional styles in order to maintain culture identity is not persuasive.
	There is no denying the fact that buildings erected in modern and unique designs and equipped with more advanced amenities will partly make a professional and active look for a city or town, which both facilitates higher living standards of the locals and draws attention to wealthy tourists or potential investors who are seeking for lucrative markets to develop their business. When the government implement the open policies for its cities and towns to construct modern buildings, many companies are more likely to rent more rooms, offices or apartments so as to place their branches, stores or even head offices. This will promisingly accelerate the local economy.
	With the intention to protect cultural identity, the government can take consideration into more practical ways rather than insist the traditional styles for new buildings. Regular repairs or refurbishment for historical and old buildings, for instance, may be a good idea to keep the country's cultural values alive longer. It is those sites that reflect more actual traditions of towns and cities than new ones built in the so-called traditional styles which people cannot ensure if they have been inherited properly from the previous to present builder generation.
	In conclusion, modern buildings are obvious results of the constant progress in construction techniques and the economic development of residential regions. The government should encourage building more high-rise buildings to satisfy its inhabitants' higher demands on hi-tech facilities as well as invest effectively in repairing old buildings to conserve traditional values.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2102-is-it-right-to-exclude-males-or-females-from-certain-professions",
Essay 430:
	Traditionally men and women work in different fields. Though they have always worked together to build a better world, a subtle difference has always been there in the types of employment they have done. The modern world has changed this perspective to a great extent despite some people’s old-fashioned views that a woman should look after the family and a man should be the bread winner. In my view, gender equality is far more important than considering which sectors are more suitable for a particular gender and which are not.
	Some people might present traditional arguments regarding the suitability of some posts for females and some others for male, but the modern era teaches us otherwise. In fact, greater freedom of choice in terms of employment can accelerate the development of a nation than the old way of distributed work pattern. For instance, it is believed by many that a female is more suitable for a profession that requires tenderness and caring while men are more adept in doing tasks those demand more physical strength. Thus, according to their opinion, more women should become nurses or teachers than males while logging, mining, and construction works should be solely done by males.
	However, making occupations more open to both genders have distinctive advantages and in certain cases, mixed-gender work environment outperforms the single-sex workplace. For instance, having an all-female hospital is quite challenging and not a pragmatic idea at all. Men and women can bring diverse perspectives and approaches to a job and a school with both male and female teachers has better teaching environment than a single-sex-teacher one. It is quite logical that a female patient would feel more comfortable to consult with a female doctor while a female police would better understand the domestic violence and bring superior strategies for dealing with the problems. Though traditional view does not support women to become doctors or police, we can definitely understand their needs.
	To conclude, innovation and advantages the gender equality in job sectors can bring is far-reaching and have greater benefits for the society. The time has come for us to break the traditional and outdated belief of gender-suitable-profession. 
Essay 431:
	It is evident that the gender gap is closing in the vast majority of occupations in today’s society. However, some remain with the opinion that females and males are born to have differences in terms of their vocational preferences. Despite this, I would argue in this essay that it is wrong to exclude a certain gender from a certain occupation.
	It is undoubtedly true that a certain gender could be more appreciated in some professions. It is mainly determined by the biological differences between males and females. For example, females are perceived to be more caring and nurturing by nature, so that they could be more suitable working in nurseries and hospitals; whereas, males are more likely to be employed in mining and construction industries because they are physically stronger. In those cases, the gender gap may remain in the short future.
	However, for the vast majority of professions, making occupations more open to both genders has significant advantages. Different genders could bring different perspectives into work, which could generate more possibilities for a company’s development. For example, a male nurse could offer his unique experience to a female-dominated team in order to promote a more holistic care to patients in both genders. Moreover, there is evidence that a mixed-gender working environment is often proven to be more efficient. Therefore, companies could benefit from the different perspectives and efficiency that mixed gender teams bring.
	To conclude, although some occupations remain to be female or male dominant, there are more advantages to allowing both genders have the freedom of their vocational choices. Companies that facilitate this equality could benefit from the increased possibilities and efficiency.
Essay 432:
	It is generally believed that in some cases, males and females have difference ability, skill weakness, limitations and natural talents, especially in a workplace. I am of the belief that they should be distinguished for certain work fields. Assigning the right person in the right place would enhance performance and increase the profit and productivity. I would explain two examples to reinforce my view.
	Initially, women tend to be more patient in teaching toddlers and adolescences than men. In addition, women better understand what children want and like. Moreover, it is common that woman teachers are higher in number than male teachers in nursery and primary schools. This strength could be best used if women have had more opportunities in teaching children, nursery or any fields that relate to the teaching and interacting with the toddler. Likewise, female are naturally caring and nursing is a great profession for them. It is not uncommon that we can see more female nurses in hospitals that their male counterparts. So from this regards, I agree that some professions are more suitable for female whereas others are to men. Providing that gender base priority in some professions is not a bad idea at all.
	Another example is male’s natural strength. On an average, men are physically stronger than women. For example, generally labours are mostly males as this job requires hard work and physical strength. The work fields that require more physical strength could be reserved for male employees. Likewise in many jobs employees need to work at night and work publicly which might be inconvenient for female employees in many countries. For such jobs, males should be given priority, I believe.
	Lastly, men tend to use their logic first but women use their feeling first. Meanwhile, men like extreme challenges than women. Mining in offshore is one of the professions that need logic, bravery, and physical strength at the same time. Men are suitable for doing this job because not only for those requirements but also the commitment to work overtime.
	To sum up, it is right to exclude men or women in certain work fields. People work based on their passion and ability. Educational background, enthusiasm, skill, talent and suitability can increase the performance and some jobs could be more suitable for male while others for female. 
Essay 433:
	Nature has made males and females with a different set of characteristics and these contrasts in feature make them adept at certain tasks, according to the common belief of the society. However, in this era, when gender equality has already been accepted and both males and females proved that they can be equally fit in any job, excluding a certain gender from a particular profession is no longer an acceptable and wise option.
	To begin with, according to the common social dogma, women should stay at home, take care of the kitchen and up-bring children while men should have a career, earn money and take important decisions for the family. Though this was a widely accepted idea in the past, it has started changing and women in certain professions have outnumbered their male counterparts. For instance, the number of female teachers has already exceeded the number of male teachers in many countries according to an online report. On the other hand, men have proven that they can be as good as females in child care and nursing. The time has come to forget the old dogma and accept the fact that gender equality is longer an option, but a must in job sectors. Women are no longer ready to be confined within the walls while males have forgotten their prejudices and started switching the roles.
	Furthermore, while selecting someone for a job, the authority should look for a suitable candidate and that person can be either a male or female. The widely held belief that women are less suitable in professions that require physical strength, logical reasoning, mental power, diplomacy and dealing with others is no longer acceptable in the society. Many female presidents and prime ministers in the world have proved that it is a baseless theory and tech giants lie Google, Microsoft, Facebook and Yahoo! Do not employ people based on their gender, rather they put more emphasis on someone’s quality and potential.
	To draw a conclusion to the discussion, despite some physical differences, both men and women have similar talents and possibility. The old dogma of gender-based role is no longer tolerable in the modern era and this is why someone’s talent and skill should be the primary reasons for the suitability for a job, not the gender of the candidate.  
Essay 434:
	Throughout the history, a difference could be observed in the type of jobs men and women have done. However, this old belief that categorises men and women for certain jobs has changed in the modern era and these days, both genders have a greater freedom to choose a career. Some people might possess the old dogma in this regard, I personally, however, believe that gender equality must be encouraged.
	One group of thought advocates that male are physically stronger and have less vulnerability while working in a group of people while females are better caretakers and soft-hearted. This is why, according to them, certain works like logging, coal mining and construction works are more suitable for men while teaching, cleaning and nursing should be done by females. While all-female or all-male employee concept is supported by some, I think a balanced workplace, where an equal number of men and women work together, is more suitable in terms of social, economic and gender equality perspectives.
	It is more practical to make occupations open to both sexes as it has distinctive advantages. Due to a slightly different way of dealing an event by men and women in general, having both male and female employees in an organisation brings more innovations and open new opportunities. For example, a female police officer may have a greater understanding of domestic violence and a better range of strategies for dealing with the problem while a male nurse can better judge the need of a male patient in a hospital.
	To draw the conclusion, gender-based occupation at a first glance may seem beneficial but in reality, the gender equality can ensure better performance, innovation and social progress. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2101-young-people-enjoy-life-more-than-older-people-do",
Essay 435:
	Globalisation and metropolitan cultures have revolutionised human life. Have it been for shopping malls, various food chains and extreme sports centres, people have numerous alternatives to enjoy and release the stresses! In apropos of the argument, I am consummate accord with it and I believe that young adults lead an interesting and adventurous life. This opinion is surrounded by various arguments.
	To begin with, in the wake of available alternatives nowadays, adolescences live a life, which allows them to explore and learn. Youngsters have handy and useful options such as the internet, social media, high-resolution video games, shopping malls, where they can hang out with friends and enjoy anytime. For an instance, as per a report from a leading advertisement agency, 90% parents agreed that children have numerous viable options to engage in, which were not possible in pre-globalization era. Moreover, technological gadgets and social media are majorly intricate to use for old people. Thus, aged people cannot utilise these entertainment mediums and enjoy.
	In addition,  youngsters of the twenty-first century are adventurous and they have a proclivity to perform various extreme sports. In other words, adults participate in high voltage sports such as jumping, skating, paragliding etc., which is never possible for old people.  It can be confirmed by a survey done by extreme sports body in the USA. As per the survey, 90% of the adventure sports are executing only because of people less than 30 years of age. Evidently, aged people are not capable and fit enough to enjoy these sports.
	Biologically young people have a sound body and much enthusiasm than the people in old ages. The sound body and inquisitive mind are two main ingredients to lead a happy and enjoyable life. In this regard, young people lead a better life than older people.
	To sum up, I am convinced that technological development and adventure sports have opened multiple new avenues of entertainment for youngsters, which are not feasible for the old people to participate in. Thus, young adults have more alternatives to lead an entertaining life and they utilise it overwhelmingly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2100-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-952-some-businesses-prohibit-smoking-in-any-of-their-offices",
Essay 436:
	Smoking has been prohibited inside some companies whereas in few countries it has been totally banned in all the public places. It is agreed that this is an appropriate action because serious consequences of smoking in working areas and in public may lead to fire accidents and heath hazards to self and society.
	Moreover, if smoking is banned in all public places of the country then obviously the overall health of the masses would be improved. Since it becomes a legal issue, if they disobey the rules, people might gradually become de-addicted. For illustration, my uncle decided not to smoke in public amenities like bus stops and railway stations instead of paying a huge amount of fine. Naturally, life-threatening diseases like lung cancer and asthma could reduce and the number of passive smokers might also decline. Eventually, the future citizens of the country are made healthier which would be reflected as their efficiency, productivity and enthusiasm thereby paving way for the country's development.
	In conclusion, banning smoking either in business sectors or all public places, both are undeniably a wise remedial act because the job environment is made safer and the people are encouraged to lead a healthy lifestyle which in turn contributes to the overall growth of the country. Though smokeless future seems to be skeptical but it could be made possible with joint efforts of all the individuals.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2099-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-951-what-is-your-view-of-the-relationship-between-equality-and-personal-success",
Essay 437:
	According to the Ecological Systems Theory, the environment that a person lives in has the most significant influence on his/her personal development. Some argue that certain personal traits are closely associated with a person’s achievement. However, I will argue in this essay that social equality is the key to an individual’s success in general from two aspects: gender equality and education equality.
	The roles that women play in societies often vary significantly among different regions of the world. Societies, that offer women more freedom in terms of educational and vocational choices, could possess more desirable opportunities to facilitate women in pursuing their dreams and achieving their potentials. Women in Australia, for example, where the equality between males and females is considerably advance, could be more likely to achieve higher personal successes than women in Pakistan where females often remain inferior than males in society.
	Education equality is another effect that could largely influence on one’s accomplishment. As human society develops, the ability of literacy and the access to modern technologies become increasingly important in individuals’ personal development. Residents of regions where free fundamental education and better access to technologies, such as the internet and computers, are provided, could have increasing numbers of opportunities to exercise their personal traits, thus, to succeed in the fields of their choices.
	To conclude, an egalitarian society can facilitate more achievements among individuals. The gender and education equalities are two fundamental ones that could ensure everyone in the society, both males and females, to have the relatively equal opportunity to succeed.
Essay 438:
	The concern and ongoing debate in the relationship between equality and personal success have developed recently. Some are convinced that individuals have marvellous opportunities to gain their success in egalitarian societies where everyone is treated in the same manner no matter what their educational, economical and intellectual levels are. While the opponents conceive that the high level of attainment will happen only if the individuals are free to achieve both the success and failure based on their own capabilities. I entirely believe that there is a strong connection between equality and personal success and this essay aims to elaborate that the egalitarian society is the best option for people.
	As the era is developing, some aspects among the general public are changing and equality is one of those aspects. The concept of equality has been spread in the whole world and it results in many successes in egalitarian communities. Egalitarian gives fantastic chance to people to gain their achievement since there is no restriction for people in order to reach their success. In this situation, skill and knowledge are the main factors to achieve it. In Indonesia, for example, it was hard for women to have positions in certain sectors such as politics and military because most people were convinced that it was not appropriate for women to become either politician or a defence personnel. Yet, as the people is more open-minded now, it is no longer an issue and women can achieve their success in any sectors based on their ability. Thus, the egalitarian trend has influenced the society’s achievement.
	Besides, equal rights and opportunities trigger people to become more competitive in a positive way and have more spirit to achieve something. Furthermore, people can get motivation from their surrounding that has similar objectives. In a classroom, for instance, every pupil has the same rights to be the champ without be differentiated by the teacher. While the students are surrounded by spirited fellows, they will learn better. In this case, having equal opportunities and rights urge people to gain the best achievement. Therefore, egalitarian concepts provide more chance to every people to become successful.
	In conclusion, In conclusion, equality motivates people to work together and help each other. In a society where discrimination is present, even based on people’s capability, greater good can never be achieved.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2098-non-vegetarian-food-should-be-banned",
Essay 439:
	With the advancement in technology and globalisation, every facet of life has transformed and food habits are no exception. Since the beginning of recorded time, people are known hunters, on account of their necessity to food; however, with the revolution in civilisation, there are vehement disputes on prohibiting non-vegetarian cuisine. I believe, meat is an indispensable component of our diets and must not be banned. This opinion is surrounded by various rationales.
	To begin with, food items prepared by animal's flesh are known for nutritious ingredients that are almost denied in vegetables. Admittedly, the profuse quantity of unsaturated fats such as Omega-3 is found in red meat only. Broadly speaking, Omega-3 is only fat which is not dissolvable in the body and it is propitious for human health. Thus, eroding non-vegetarian from diets is not beneficial. In addition, animals are vital constituents of the food cycle. Evidently, wilds are a major component of food cycle on earth; therefore they must be utilised to maintain the appropriate balance in the cycle. For an instance, if wild animals are removed from the cycle, the earth will become abundant with animals which may be harmful to nature. Moreover, turning vegetarian will require almost 1/3 of the earth's vegetation to be utilised per year.Thus, migrating towards non-vegetarian food is not providential for earth and denizens.
	To sum up, on account of the availability of highly nutritious elements and its presence in food-cycle, it is broadly impossible to remove meat from diet and it's utilisation in diet must be encouraged to retain the natural habitat of earth.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2097-it-is-hard-to-justify-the-reason-to-participate-in-the-lecture-physically",
Essay 440:
	In the earlier days, the educators could deliver lectures to a group of students in one classroom but now with the boom in technological advancement, it is getting harder to state reasons for their physical presence. It is agreed that it is difficult for justifying the reasons to be physically present in such gatherings while there is an alternative option, the internet.
	The primary reason for this is that the time flexibility of online classes. The scholars might schedule their own time to learn the subjects taught since the digitalized academic materials facilitate the saving for reviewing it later. To illustrate, the tutors could either record their lessons and upload in YouTube or send links to tutees' email address or even post in students' common login page. These easily accessible options were not under limelight until the emergence of the internet.
	Another connected reason is the possibility to access many experts at one time. Even if the novice is about to attend the lecture directly, there is less chance for him to meet many educators at the same place but with recent application software like Google hangout, it has become facile to gather knowledge from different people of the same field of study.
	To conclude, while there is a better option to choose from with the advent of technology, learners tend not to get inclined to other choices. Unless there is a mandatory need to get enrolled for the lectures in person, undoubtedly they prefer online classes. My personal viewpoint is that this way of updated learning has become more useful because of the ease provided to manage their time properly. Thus e-classrooms and tuitions are better to be preferred by the students of this modern era.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2096-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-948-suggest-how-families-could-be-brought-closer-together",
Essay 441:
	Families, which form the base for socialisation, are not as bonded as they had been in earlier days. It is undeniable that the bonding between the members of the family is weakening gradually during the course of time.
	The primary reason is time spent together with the family has shrunk. In the rat race to achieve materialistic prosperity, everyone in the family started working in different places, so it is quite evident that they hardly have quality time with each other. For instance, if both parents in a family are the breadwinners then it is obvious that their words would be left aloof most of the time. Thus the space left for love and affection to blossom in such a nuclear family has become less frequent.
	Another connected reason is the addiction to electronic gadgets .This contemporary world drives people to become technophilic. Despite having leisure time, these days it appears that it is not well spent with the loved ones because of laptops and smartphones. This is because these gadgets have access to the internet which in turn opens ways for social networking sites like Facebook and YouTube. Thus there is a larger probability that the citizens might get hooked and engrossed .Since these consume more time, the time spent with family has lessened.
	With regard to the suggestions to bind the families together, it is recommended that if everyone decides to be with their family every weekend then definitely it would compensate the time they worked round the clock throughout the week. Therefore, in my opinion, this weekend bonds might even make individuals emotionally more attached to other members of the family and could strengthen their relationship.
	To conclude, most of the populaces are deprived of time for spending with their families either because of aspiration for materialism or addiction to gadgets .This has made a dramatic change that the family members are not as closer to each other like years ago, so it is suggested to spend weekends with family to make up their relationship.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2094-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-947-today-s-youth-are-experimenting-with-both-legal-and-illegal-drugs",
Essay 442:
	The people of the Modern world are always in search of new enjoyments and new attractions. While drugs are lifesavers when they are taken for the health issue and prescribed by the doctors, it can also be fatal if taken for temporary amusement. Many special drugs, pills and similar things of that kind are abused by young people and it is a big threat to the future of next generations of the society.
	This habit starts with smoking and end in fatal addiction in some seriously addictive substances. Because it is legal for the teenagers who are above the age of 16 in many crowded countries or smoke, they start smoking. Then, the issue gets worse and youth want to experience more powerful substances for temporary joy and excitement.
	Another peril is the people and friends with whom young people live and spend time. The groups of teenagers who abuse drugs might induce the innocents. A big cause of widespread drug use is exactly the influence of the environment and friends. Although well-mannered parents send their children to schools to get some quality educations and cultures, in some schools the drug abusers induce them to do wrong things.
	In my opinion, some prevention measures have to be taken for the welfare of youth. School authority and teachers should make them well disciplined and manage a nice and rigid system in schools that would prevent young children to proceed to wrong ways. The government should make sure that the illegal substances and drugs are not available and should make sure no young people can get it without the authorised prescriptions and parental guidance. Parents should be more attached to their kids and should live ideal life to set an example for your kids.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2093-some-people-believe-that-the-internet-creates-many-problems",
Essay 443:
	It is true that although the internet has facilitated us in many ways like gifting us a globalisation where this world is now being referred to as a small village but it is also true that it has created many problems too.  In this fast paced technologically high world where parents do not have enough time to look at the activities of their small kids because of their busy schedule, small children also have access to the internet easily. They are exposed to many things on the internet which are not suitable for them. They are learning many things which are not good for them to learn at their age.
	In addition to this, the internet has also created problems in the financial world also. Nowadays, people are being misguided in a way that many hackers, spammers, and digital fraud make people fool. For example, my friend is being made fool by one of the hackers on the internet. He has asked him to register with a website which can give assistance to go abroad and for registration he has to pay online. He has given his credit card number. His credit card number is being used by the hacker and he made a lot of transactions from his credit card number.
	Moreover, In addition to these disadvantages, the internet has also made people far away from each other. In today's world, people are not interacting with each other because they get too busy in their lives. Instead of meeting with each other personally, people prefer to get in touch with each other through internet only.
	All in all, we can say that everything has its own pros and cons and it totally depends on the user. Although the internet creates many problems but it has also benefitted us in many ways.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2092-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-945-managers-alone-should-make-decisions-in-the-company",
Essay 444:
	There are strong arguments that the authority of the company must plan their actions towards the success of their business. However, some individuals are convinced that employees must participate in the strategy of a company.
	Primarily, it is often said that the authority of the company is the one who invested most of the fund in their company. Some of the chief executive officers have started from small scale business industries before they reach the highest success of their companies. In other words, they have a number of managerial experiences which they could apply to proliferate their income. Hence, they do not need the advice of the employees as they might have different skills on other fields, which are not suitable for deciding better actions in a company. For instance, a computer programmer who works in a private institution may not contribute to the decisions about financial management. Furthermore, the fundamental purpose of business owners is to recover their recover the capital they invested in their companies. To illustrate, in a supermarket, most goods being sold are important because the earnings will be used to supplement the products, which sustain the continuity of a business.
	However, it can never be denied that the employees are part of a company. It is their privilege to contribute to the success of a company due to the fact that they will benefit from its monetary gain. As an instance, the employer might increase their salary because they made the greatest contribution to the improvement of business. Hence, their collaboration will bring favourable benefits to them, which may strengthen the teamwork and collaboration. Moreover, it is apparent that more ideas are imperative to the management of a business. It is possible that the owner of the company could commit erroneous decisions, which may be corrected by some workers such as staffing and scheduling in an institution.
	To conclude, I personally believe that employees must partake to the plans of a company as the authority might sometimes create irrational actions. It is very likely that if the employer and the worker merge their ideas, they will receive a propitious success.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2091-people-who-are-willing-to-pay-for-the-best-and-fast-treatment",
Essay 445:
	Rich people, for any privileged healthcare service, should turn to private healthcare facilities and the public healthcare facilities should equally treat the citizens regardless their wealth and status. If affluent people are given priority in a public-funded medical care, the poor would be deprived of their rights to get medical treatment and that is why I totally disagree with the notion that the exclusive healthcare in public funded system should be given to those who can pay more money.
	To begin with, a government has an obligation to ensure healthcare service for all of its citizens. If better medical services in a public funded system are for sell, it would only degrade the overall healthcare service in a country and symbolise a weak and corrupt administration. Furthermore, any public service, including healthcare, is run by taxpayers' money and offering exclusive services to rich people would create a backdoor for corruption. Similarly, it would deprive citizens of getting the service at all as rich people would start consuming the whole facility.   
	With regards to prioritise medical service, only rich people can afford that and most of the poor cannot even think of getting it. So, only an autocratic government whose sole purpose is to make money and exercising power rather than serving the people would plan to actually execute such a detrimental and whimsical plan. Having said that, the private funded exclusive and expensive medical facilities are always there and wealthy people can avail this service for them anytime they want. This is why adopting money-can-buy-better-service in a public funded healthcare system is perhaps the step to destroy a fair medical service in a country.
	To conclude, health care is a sensitive sector and any policy that can reduce its overall quality of service should always be discarded. In my personal opinion, and I am sure it would also reflect the opinion of the majority in my country, prioritised medical service in a public funded settlement should never be implemented as it has a severe negative effect that would hinder poor people from getting healthcare facilities at all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2089-men-and-women-should-have-equal-position-in-army",
Essay 446:
	In the modern world, when women rub shoulders with men in every field, it is a moot issue that women should take equal responsibilities in the army. This essay would discuss that men are more suitable in the army and my viewpoint accord with that. Males have more physical strength and emotional maturity, which is necessary for a non-civilian.
	Firstly, jobs in warfare and armed forces require physical fitness. Handling sophisticated machines and weapons need body strength. Men are more powerful than women; it facilitates men for to do jobs easily and quickly. Furthermore, different geographical condition and climatic conditions need to be faced and the weak body cannot tolerate this. In addition, sometimes warfare soldiers cannot get enough foods; it forced them to continue their job with starving body, which makes difficult for women to work.
	Secondly, the fair sex is emotionally weak. Men are aggressive and fearless which require for a soldier to take decisions and fight. Moreover, women are submissive and tender-hearted, which are leads to run away from the battlefield rather than fighting. Women will try to safeguard their position, whereas, men are selfless and very dominating.  This emotional immaturity makes women as a bad warrior.
	Ironically, there are some fields women can excel, like health care and other clerical works. To handle women culprits and checking women are needed in the military.
	To recapitulate, women are playing an important role in many sectors. However, working in military need more abilities, males are ideal for war field, women excel by assisting the job.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2088-alternative-sources-of-energy-should-be-utilized-now",
Essay 447:
	Since the beginning of the recorded time, people have been exploring natural resources to fulfil their needs. Has it been water, coal to burn fire and cook, crude oil to commute from one place to other, dwellers have been exploring avenues to live in; consequently these are on the verge of annihilation. Apropos of the argument, I am in consummate accord with it and I believe that people should refrain from scavenging and envisage alternative sources. This opinion is surrounded be several arguments as below.
	To begin with, over exploration of soil is a threat to the environment. In other words, various exploration programs are causing depletion of soil; as a result, it has resulted in numerous global catastrophes. For an instance, as per a report from a renowned coal mining magazine, 60% of the natural catastrophes are taking due to imbalance created by mining. Thus, digging earth for minerals should be prevented as soon as possible.
	In addition, utilization of coal and crude oil for generation of electricity produces harmful gases. Byproducts after burning coal and crude oil are treacherous, in particular, carbon monoxide, which is the major constituent of swelling global warming. Recently, environment scientists have confirmed in a monthly magazine that human must migrate to renewal energy sources owing to the severe level of poisonous gases such as CO, H2S, HCN in the atmosphere germinated by utilizing fossil fuels.
	To conclude, extraction of earth must be prevented as soon as possible to alleviate natural disasters due to imbalance is the environment. Likewise, the human must shift their focus to renewal energy to maintain the oxygen level on the earth.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2087-old-people-should-be-taken-care-by-government",
Essay 448:
	Advancement in technology and globalisation have transformed each facet of life and revolution is family structure is no exception. In the wake of various job opportunities people have migrated to other nations as a result concept of nuclear family has carved the cliche in the community. It has germinated a vehement argument that who should take care of old age people at home. Though I am convinced that parents have brought up the children and now is the time for them to pay the debt, but I disagree that it is only family’s responsibility and the government should not devise measures for the benefit of parents.
	To begin with, it is widely claimed that children are nothing without parents. Parents as guardian have taught everything from speaking to walking. Evidently, children should look after parents when they become old as it is not only a moral responsibility but also it is the duty as a son or daughter.
	On the flip side, I also agree that government must take adequate measures to assist old age people. On account of increasing social equality husband and wife both are working professionals in demanding work environments. Thus, looking after parents has become impossible. Moreover, relying on children will not be helpful for old age people as they will end up cooking foods and babysitting their grandchildren. Therefore, the cabinet must pass bills to facilitate old dwellers with monthly pensions and old age houses to help them in their difficult time. The old people have contributed to the country in many ways including paying the tax and the government should ensure their proper care from the fund the country has or from the money it collects from the taxpayers.
	To conclude, while relatives should accompany retired people in their need, but I am convinced that government must stamp out steps in the goodwill of these people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2086-the-wealth-gap-between-1st-world-countries-and-3rd-world-countries",
Essay 449:
	First world countries are the most developed countries as oppose to 3rd world countries which are least developed.The financial gap between the two sides is increasing with every passing day. I strongly agree that developed nations have an ethical and moral obligation to support the underdeveloped countries in every possible way.
	It is a known fact that world economy is being controlled by developed countries. There exist the forums like G8 which consist of top eight developed countries of the world. Global economic policies are being made during their meetings which drive the world economy. While making the policies at the highest stage of the world, members of developed countries should keep in mind the poverty in developing and under developed countries. The wealth gap between the developed and developing countries can be reduced by making economic policies which are friendly and least hostile towards the developing countries.
	Apart from the policies, it is also a moral and ethical duty of developed countries to support the underdeveloped countries. A development project in an underdeveloped country will not only provide a way of growth but also create many new jobs for the local public. Similarly, Governments and NGOs of the rich countries should provide financial aid in the field of education, health, energy, etc. This will also help in reducing the wealth gap along with the development of the poor and needy nation.
	In the end, it is concluded that financial and wealth gap can be reduced by making good economic policies, by investing in the development projects and by providing the financial aid. Rich countries and rich people should provide assistance to poor countries and poor people respectively.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2085-trade-and-travel-would-be-a-lot-easier-with-a-single-global-currency",
Essay 450:
	With the use of one global currency, there will be many benefits in travelling and cross-border business. I agree with the statement that trade and travel would be a lot easier with the use of one global currency. However, there might be some problems. Let’s discuss the pros and cons.
	When thinking of one currency, everyone points to the Euro. It is a common currency which is being used in multiple countries of Europe. European citizens and other tourists travelling to Europe don’t have to carry multiple currencies. Only one currency works in such countries and people don’t bother about the exchange rates as well. Similarly, global deals of business and trade will be straight forward as this will be without the fluctuation of forex rates. The conversion hassle and global acceptance of a currency would be reduced and some monopoly in trading would be reduced.
	Although, the idea of global currency is very appealing but there might be some issues in its implementation at the global level. There are more than 200 countries and each has its own currency. No two currencies have the same exchange rate. During the crossborder deals, the forex difference plays a vital role. With the use of one single currency, countries having higher exchange rates with respect to other will be at receiving end and have to bear the deficit.
	In the end, it is concluded that one global currency is beneficial for the general public. But there would be challenges in its implementation. Once the problems and issues are resolved, it would be a lot easier for the business community as well as for the travellers and tourists.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2082-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-938-when-students-are-in-large-classes-it-is-very-hard-for-the-teachers",
Essay 451:
	Nowadays, due to the rising population and a limited number of educational institutions high numbers of students are being admitted to a single institution. Classrooms are accommodating a considerable number of students which is quite problematic for faculty members to reserve time for each and every student considering the difficulty level of educational studies and quantity of time required if they try to allocate it for each individual. These problems can be resolved substantially if educational management distributes all students into groups and allocate separate days for students who are weak or the ones who cannot understand easily. Further, the state should be responsible in the long term to establish and develop more and more educational institutions to cater and serve rising educational needs.
	Firstly, the school/college authorities should divide all the pupils into groups by keeping in view the previous examination results so that in each group there could be a blend of high IQ and average IQ students. For instance, the high achievers can help and teach the weak students in their group to keep up with the studies. The authorities can announce some sought of incentives for all these top scorers in the form of scholarships. This example illustrates that forming groups of different mental capabilities will help the weak and relieve the heavy workload for teachers. The suggestion of segregating pupils into small factions will serve quite a bit in good grades of weaker students whom the teachers are unable to pay attention.
	Secondly,  the authority of educational institutions should allocate a separate day apart from working days to pay dedicated attention to poor grade achievers. For instance, on weekends schedule should be announced in which every interested student can come and discuss the problems at ease with the subject teacher. This idea will result in improvement of students with poor results and make them more motivated about the subject they were initially afraid off. Thirdly, the state authorities should plan a long-term strategy for building a large number of school, colleges and university by considering the growth in population and budgetary constraints. This will support in reducing the pressure on existing institutions as well as create a more competitive environment.
	To conclude, all the existing and already established educational institution are trying their level best to provide education but keeping in mind huge quantity of students it is quite unrealistic to expect from these to pay all the students dedicated time. The solutions suggested earlier, splitting students into different groups, allocating one day in weekends and developing new institutions are both short term and long term. These problems can also be arrested easily if students can be encouraged to do more self-study.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2081-smoking-can-cause-serious-illnesses-and-should-be-made-illegal",
Essay 452:
	Many people believe that tobacco use has deleterious effects on their health and passive smoking is also very dangerous and that is why smoking must be banned in the public places. Although there are strong arguments that support this perspective, I strongly believe that it is not reasonable to restrict tobacco smoking in the society.
	Primarily, it is evident that restraining those cigarette consumers from smoking can cause withdrawal symptoms. This cigarette has an addictive substance called nicotine that leads to the feeling of euphoria for the users. For instance, a chain smoker will become uncomfortable if they cannot smoke at least one stick of cigarette. Thereby, they become depressed and lethargic as their bodies are highly dependent on a substance which alters the mood. This often seems to affect their well-being such concentration and decision making since smoking exalts their body to become more active.
	Furthermore, there are reasons to suggest that tobacco products will relocate to the black market as they are made illegitimate in the society. If the consumers purchase this product in illegal merchandise, they might be tempted to patronise other dangerous substance such as Cocaine and Marijuana. Black market offers nefarious goods available for those people who are unsatisfied with the products sold in the public market. As a result, the incidence of crimes may escalate due to the fact that substance can create inhibitions, which make the intoxicated people irrational about their actions. To illustrate, they could do heinous things as they might see as they are not aware of their morality.
	Lastly, it can never be denied that it is the right of every individual to smoke. It would be a breach of their personal decision to smoke cigarettes if the government banned these products. It is possible that these people might resent the higher authority because they are the one who spends their salary on cigarettes, not the government officials. Hence, they will retaliate such as building a riot or promoting a democratic amendment to the government.
	To conclude, I am convinced that cigarette should not be eradicated in public merchandises as there are people who are dependent on these products. There is a very likelihood that crimes would surge if these products were eliminated in the society. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2078-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-936-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-shopping-in-larger-shopping-centers",
Essay 453:
	There are arguments to suggest that a rising number of commercial establishments such as malls and supermarket have resulted in a decrease in the number of small-scale business stores. There are several positive outcomes behind this trend and a considerable number of potential drawbacks.
	Primarily, it could be argued that in some large scale commercial establishments, there are a variety of selections about personal commodities such as clothing, shoes, and bags. There is a view that well-developed shops have to increase the supply of their products because some small commercial establishment cannot provide the entire goods to the public. Taking into consideration the local store which has a limited supply of personal goods in a remote area, it seems apparent that some store owners have paucity in the investment of commercial goods, thus they cannot maximise the supply and demand of their business. Furthermore, it is often claimed that there is an amenable price in some more affluent shopping centres that some developing merchandises. Many people consider that there is an additional cost for some products available in the local store due to some owners who procure the supply of their shop to other large distributors of goods. For instance, the store keeper will gain a higher profitable income if they obtain some products to some higher commercial distributors, which sell cheap consumer goods. As a result, there will be an advantage for local store keepers.
	In contrast, it can never be denied that there are negative effects of opting to large shops. Firstly, there is a strong argument that the location of these establishments is often located at the city centre thereby it would be a burden for those people who live in a rural place to purchase their personal goods. Secondly, it is often claimed that in some local stores, there are reasons to suggest that there are residents who have developed relationship with some store keeper, therefore it might be the case that the customer could ask a favorable grant to some small stores such as lending a market good and paying it at a definite time.
	In my opinion, a variety of selection in large shops could make the customers confused on which items will be the best. Moreover, it is debatable that those products with low price are the ones which are outdated and leftover of the previous peak sale.
	To conclude, there are favourable outcomes of choosing large commercial centre. However, it is indubitable that the positives are outweighed by the negative outcomes.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2077-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-935-should-travelling-be-included-in-the-education",
Essay 454:
	Since the beginning of the recorded time, aboriginals have always been interested in learning by the mean of travelling around the globe. Has it be explorers such as Columbus, Darwin or other prominent wanderers, this world was explored and discovered by sightseeing. In the wake of education with travelling, the majority of institutions have included sight visiting as a predominant determinant while designing a course. Some people believe learning by seeing is propitious for scholars; however, other claims the opposite. I will discuss both the sides in the viability of the argument and state an opinion.
	On the one hand, opponents of adding travelling in education claim that it will hinder students to excel academically. Firstly, subjects like Mathematics, Physics and Information Technology do not require a pupil to see a sight or travel to learn them. For an example, if someone wants to be a mathematician, he must be excellent in mathematical skills and travelling to places will not add value for such students in learning and assimilating scientific concepts. Therefore, travelling has no importance in learning these subjects. Secondly, the exchange program to learn can act as a hinder in learning, as every country will have its own set of educational standards, which may not be suitable for every student. Thus, many contend that adding travelling in the curriculum is not viable and beneficial for scholars.
	On the other hand, proponents of assimilating travelling as a determinant in learning claim various rationales in support of the opinion. One the most profuse reason is on account of learning associated with practical knowledge. These advocates also assert that practical learning by sightseeing inculcates a permanent learning among the scholars, which is mandatory for the overall development of students. It can be confirmed by the latest report of education society of India, which has published the statistics of experiments on students. As per experiment, pupils were divided into two groups and taught a lesson in two different ways, the first group was taught theoretically and another group was taught practically by showing the actual sight. As per results, children taught using sightseeing were able to retain the information for 20 days extra than the students educated theoretically. Likewise, students can learn more if they will travel to other countries. It will not only impart an impetus to their academic learning, but also it will infuse cross-cultural understanding. Consequently, it will enhance the overall growth of students.
	To sum up, after discussing both sides of the argument, I am convinced that advantages of adding travelling in education overweigh the disadvantages and it must be encouraged for the overall academic and social development of the scholars.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2076-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-934-money-management-should-be-taught-in-high-school",
Essay 455:
	High School is the high time when teenagers put their first step towards independence. If they can be educated with practical skills, it will help them enormously in facing real world challenges. Practical skills like money management can assist them in better management of their life. Some people may argue that practical skills are best learnt in real life rather than the classroom.
	Teenagers get fixed allowance from their parents and some do part-time jobs to fund their expenditures. Although they do not possess large sums of money, any thug can cheat them easily. For instance, many teenagers take loans to fulfil their illegal activities like drinking, drugs and smoking. They end up owing huge sums to loan sharks, without sensing the troubles ahead. If they learn practical skills like money management, they can wisely take control of their life and stay out of troubles.
	Some people believe practical skills cannot be taught in classrooms. As the name suggests, it can be best learnt by dealing with life. For example, if money management and risk management are taught in class, there is no guarantee that pupil can get success in life. He can be too risk averse and avoid excellent tools of money making like Share trading, betting and even government bonds. If we look at successful people like Ambanis, they did not learn practical skills in the classroom, but in real life. Highly educated Charted Accounts, engineers and clerks work under their leadership.
	In conclusion, teaching practical skills can alert and educate teenagers to combat the real life nuisances. However, a few things can be best learnt by experience and most successful people gained expertise by experimenting.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2075-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-933-organic-fruits-and-vegetables-are-more-expensive",
Essay 456:
	Organic fruits and vegetables cost more than conventional fruits and vegetables but many people are willing to pay the higher price to get the organic ones. In my opinion, it is worth paying more for these organic products because it is natural and safe. Genetically modified fruits and vegetables have more pesticides and chemicals added that could be harmful to our health. The two key reasons why organic products are the best are they have fewer pesticides and more nutrients.
	The conventional fruits and vegetables look more convincing in the stores. It is usually cheaper and good looking that catches buyers. While organic fruits are sad looking which have holes and spots or rotten part, they offer better food value. Sometimes they look wrinkled and shrivelled. However, organic fruits and vegetables produce higher levels of nutrients than conventional counterparts. Furthermore, it produces more antioxidant compound linked to better health. Eating fresh organic fruits and vegetables are more nutritious and tasty. No need to settle for less if it is better than commercially grown fruits and vegetables.
	Moreover, exposure to pesticides from conventional products has some health effect such as risks of cancer, nervous system diseases and reproductive problems. Pesticides can be absorbed into fruits and vegetables and leave trace residues that could have toxic effects on humans. Another thing aside from harmful effects, it has also environmental effects. Chemical pesticides are known to pollute the environment. With several potentially harmful effects on health and environment, the cost will be more likely to double for hospitalisation.
	Therefore, organic fruits and vegetables are much better than conventional fruits and vegetables. They are worth an extra cost for the health benefits we could get in fewer pesticides fruits and vegetables.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2073-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-932-many-people-believe-that-we-have-become-a-disposable-society",
Essay 457:
	There are arguments to suggest that people have become a great consumer of products without the initiative to recycle the old items, which are not functioning anymore. There are reasons behind this trend and a considerable number of repercussions in the society.
	Primarily, it could be argued that the advent of technology has an enormous contribution to the attitude of some individuals about personal equipment. It is often claimed that some factories have adopted the use of machines in manufacturing products such as appliances and cell phones, therefore they can hasten the reproduction but with low quality. Some businessmen have gathered the raw materials to other countries, which may provide frugal spare parts. Because of the cheap materials, these shop owners can decrease the price of their products that could be amenable to the public. Furthermore, there is a strong argument that asserts that the behaviour of the mankind has changed in this contemporary period due to advancement in technology. For instance, some people might not be so eager to bring their defected instruments to the repair centre because of the new model that may arise in the market.
	On the other hand, it is widely believed that there are negative effects of being nonchalant about the possibilities that a non-functional product could be use again. Firstly, it would contribute to the pollution because those products are certainly made from plastic and hazardous chemicals. To illustrate, a stock of cell phones cannot be disposed of easily through incineration. It would be a difficult problem if there was a surplus of those personal goods. These cell phones contain batteries which are deleterious to human’s health. Secondly, there is a view that this trend might be adopted by the next generation since the progress of technology is inevitable. For example, some youngsters might acclimatise to the view and habit of the seniority, thus this trend will be handed to their next offspring.
	To conclude, the advent of technology and the cheap products have piqued some people to be dissuaded from reusing superannuated items. It is the environment and the virtue of the next generation that will be affected by this trend.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2072-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-931-there-has-been-a-trend-towards-smaller-family-sizes",
Essay 458:
	Ever since the genesis of industrialisation, the world has gone through many paradigm shifts.  This is also evident in the fact that average family size is getting smaller. It is argued that rising costs of living and career-oriented thinking are the primary reasons for this trend. These causes and their effects will be analysed in this essay
	To begin, ever since the industrial revolution, rising cost of living in cities has compelled people to shrink the size of their families due to economic reasons. This has resulted in families spending more time with their offspring, since the number of children, among which parents have to divide their time, has reduced dramatically. For example, a recent study conducted by Save the Children, a not for profit organisation, found that children of the modern era do much better than their earlier counterparts in schools and colleges. This would perhaps not be possible if parents had to spend a large amount of their time nurturing the needs of a higher number of children. Hence, the impact a small family size has on child’s academics is clear.
	In addition, the advent of technology has removed the need for human intervention in many jobs, as a consequence, now more people have to compete for fewer jobs. Such circumstances have made people more career oriented than they used to be, therefore, starting and expansion of families has moved to the bottom of the pecking order of many people’s priorities. The most evident effect of this on society is an ageing population in many of the western countries in the world. For instance, in Germany, the population growth rate is in negative, which could perhaps mean that the current generation of Germany will not be able to replace their dying forefathers in numbers. Therefore the devastating impact of small families is also evident.
	As is clear, improved academic performances of children on the one hand and the probable extinction of genes of some, on the other hand, are the two of most prominent impacts of decreasing family sizes. It is thus hoped that people will muse upon greatly before choosing their career paths and starting families.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2071-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-930-modern-technology-has-a-great-impact-on-our-environment",
Essay 459:
	This contemporary milieu has been influenced by new innovation in technology, which has affected the natural environment. There are arguments to suggest that people should live in a traditional form of lifestyle to rectify ecological problems. However, it can be argued that the technology can offer solutions to tackle the environmental destruction.
	Primarily, it is indubitable that the natural habitat could be preserved if most people adapted to manual labour rather than machines. It might be the case that some farmers use mechanical ploughs, which emits a considerable amount of fumes, to weed their farm. There is a view that these machines, which hasten the productivity, have helped people from their daily routine task. As a result, the demand of machines will also lead to the production of carbon dioxide, which will contribute to global warming.  Furthermore, there are reasons to suggest that some of the machines have been used to exploit environmental resources. Taking into consideration the use of the chain saw that accelerates the logging of live trees. It is also possible that some businessmen have established factories, and most of the equipment is reliant on fossil fuel. In the previous era, majority of primitive people have survived even without the use of technology, thus in this modern world, some would consider that people can still thrive by reducing the usage of machines.
	In contrast, it can never be denied that the advent of technology has contributed to the development of a country and even the preservation of mother earth can be granted by modern studies. To illustrate, there is a feasible study6 that asserts that the ultraviolet rays coming from the sun can be prevented through the use of mirrors which will b flown in the space. As a result, the sun rays will be deflected by the million of mirrors in the space, and that will be viable because of the continuous development in technology. In addition, the possibility to recycle the old goods and rubbish has become realistic because of the application of technology. For instance, the disintegration of matter and moulding to a new form can be ascribed to advances in machinery and computers.
	In my opinion, time is inevitably progressing, and people need to adapt to the modern culture. Moreover, there has been as strict legislation that precludes people from abusing the environmental resource, thus they might seldom use technology to harm the forest.
	To conclude, some people believe that they should not become more reliant on machines in order to maintain the wealth of the environment, yet it is compelling that technology has been proven to produce amenable aid to resolve the environmental hazards and pollution.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2070-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-929-people-nowadays-are-not-fit-and-active-than-the-people-from-the-olden-days",
Essay 460:
	Ever since the genesis of industrialisation, human beings have gone through many different changes. This is evident from the fact that people are no longer as physically fit and active as they used to be.  It is argued that increasing use of technology and removal of many physically demanding jobs are the two cardinal reasons for this. To tackle these problems, educational programs and establishment of health facilities will be analysed for viability.
	To begin, many individuals have adopted television and internet browsing as their hobbies, which has led to them adopting sedentary lifestyles. To counter this, educational programs aimed at these people can educate them about the hazards such a lifestyle poses to the health of an individual. For instance, the government of Pakistan has run many infomercials in the past few year to increase the awareness about the importance of exercising among the geriatric population. Which in turn, resulted in lower number of elderly people reporting joint related problems in the coming years. Therefore, the effectiveness of such targeted campaigns can be clearly seen.
	In addition, due to industrialisation, the nature of jobs around the world has moved from being physically demanding to service oriented. Consequently, a large chunk of people does not get the necessary physical activity required to have a sound body. For this, establishment of more health facilities around the residential areas is a plausible solution. For example, a psychological study, recently conducted, found that people are generally less likely to exercise if they have to travel a long distance to get to the exercise location. As this shows, the establishment of such facilities near people’s residences is an effective method to address lifestyle-related problems.
	As is clear, targeted educational campaigns and setting up more health clubs are two effectual ways to make people form healthy habits and become healthy individuals. It is thus hoped that these strategies are put into practice by the masses the world over.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2068-there-have-been-many-technological-developments-in-the-20th-century",
Essay 461:
	The 20th century has been the century of inventions and innovations. Fields like transport, telecom, medical, education etc. all have seen the phenomenal developments but one of the significant revolutions in the technology is the internet. The internet has changed the landscape of human life to an unimaginable level. The computer has made this planet just like a global village and created millions of employment opportunities.
	Firstly, the computer has transformed this planet into one family. Everyone who wants information regarding anything can access through the internet in just a matter of seconds regardless of his place and location. You can view of information, lifestyle, population and other geographical information of any country in the world. For instance, if I want to compare the top universities of the world it would hardly take a minute which would otherwise be not possible without this blessing. It is evident that the internet has shrunken this world like one home in which everyone is a family member.
	Secondly, the internet has created job opportunities for millions of people. Work options have been created in the form of web designing, web hosting, online product sales, software development and hundreds more which cannot be listed here. For example, the biggest company in the world which has the most expensive share in New York Stock exchange is none other than Google. This supports the logic that the internet has been one of the significant causes of job creation.
	However, there are some drawbacks also of this technology. Cyber crimes and fake business have entered in this world of internet. To illustrate that, many hackers have hacked the important and national security websites of not only third world countries but also leading nations like the United States. These cyber crimes are playing the havoc with the intelligence agencies of the world. Thus, it can be seen that these crimes are depicting the negative pictures of this technology.
	To summarise, the internet has truly changed the face of the world making it a very small one and giving the opportunities of millions of people to earn their livelihood. The internet has truly been the greatest development of 20th century. It is recommended that states should make tight laws to curb the illegal activity going on the internet.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2067-anyone-can-post-information-on-the-internet-even-if-it-is-incorrect",
Essay 462:
	As millions of people and organisations of all stripes can post information on the Internet, more people don’t deem the content they see online accurate. However, there is still credible information on the Internet, which is harder to be ferreted out.
	It is understandable that people desire to be focused on, especially those who want to become stars, the Internet is the most effective way to make this happen. Thus this drives many of them to spread their personal information to attract more viewers so that one day their gifts may be paid attention to. Also, for some business organisations, they usually create exaggerated advertisements to propagate their products, while actually, their products are not as perfect as the advertisements described.
	On the other hand, in some repressive regimes, media is closely tied to the government. Media outlets provide information not for the well-being of civilians but for the propaganda of the regime so that they can control the regime for their own interests.
	However, all those critics of Internet information do not mean that there is little reliable information. After all, there are people telling lies out of their personal interests, there are definitely a large group of people being against lies and keeping digging the truth, though. Therefore, the target that those authoritative organisations and individuals posting their information is, to tell the truth, and clear the clouds, which makes their information accurate and reliable.
	After all, in the world with diverse cultures and races, it is impossible to guarantee all information being objectively accurate. All we should do is to keep a clear head and become more efficient to sort out the accurate information from those detrimentally false so that we can stand on the impartial side.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2066-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-926-some-people-think-they-should-keep-all-the-money-they-earn",
Essay 463:
	In most countries around the world, while paying taxes is required by the law and considered a civic duty, it also brings about downsides that lead to certain individuals or corporations trying to evade or deduct the tax they need to pay.
	Some people claim that levying taxes is unfair and they deserve to keep all their legitimate income to themselves because they fight every single minute for it. High taxes can not only stifle the motivation of individual workers but also exert a negative effect of penalising hard work. The more concerning situation, however, is that with all taxpayers’ money accumulated, the government, albeit even an elected one, could misuse or even become corrupted, not to mention those authoritarian ones. In this case, it is better to keep the money to their own instead of anyone else.
	However, other people argue that taxes revenue provides a vital source for the government who shoulder the responsibility to build a strong country and provide important public services such as police, healthcare, education and many other vital ones which are closely tied to every single citizen’s well-being. Without this revenue, there would be no money to pay for government workers, resulting in no organisation to run the country and probably jeopardising national security. Therefore, paying taxes should be every single taxpayer’s responsibility.
	My view is that it is every capable citizen’s duty to pay taxes to support and provide our government necessary sources to protect our entire country as well as improve our personal life quality, only in the condition that they must be well used and absolutely cannot be abused by incompetent officials.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2065-international-tourism-has-brought-enormous-benefit-to-many-places",
Essay 464:
	People have different views about the effect of the international tourism. While I accept that international tourism has some positive impacts on our lives, I believe that it has more negative impacts compared to positive ones.
	On the one hand, International tourism has many advantages. Firstly from the personal perspective, tourism is a most popular leisure activity. Tourists can relax and have fun by sightseeing a new place. Also, tourism broadens their horizons and opened minds by exposing them to different cultures and customs. Secondly, from an economic perspective, tourism industry plays a vital role in many countries. People may rely on tourism for their income. Also, tourism industry creates many jobs opportunities in services like hotels and restaurants. As a result, international tourism improves the standard of living in some local areas.
	On the other hand, I believe that International tourism has more negative impacts on the environment and local cultures. From an environmental perspective, tourism may affect the environment negatively in three ways. Firstly, the excessive building needed by tourism industry could destroy natural habitats and even may result in the extinction of many animals and plants. Also, international tourism causes more pollution and wastage. Finally, Tourism industry puts more pressure on natural resources like oil and water and this may lead to the shortage of some basic human needs. From a cultural perspective, tourism may affect local cultures negatively. Traditional jobs and skills like farming and fishing may die out because tourism forces people to work in their services. So, this may lead to loss of many cultural features and values.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that the potential dangers of international tourism on the environment and culture are more significant than the possible benefits on personal and economical sectors. Governments should impose laws to protect the environment and local cultures.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2064-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-924-people-today-often-buy-new-things-instead-of-fixing",
Essay 465:
	Ever since the genesis of industrialisation, people’s lifestyles have gone through a paradigm shift. This is evident from the fact that people today often buy new things instead of getting the old ones fixed. It is argued that rising standards of living and hectic lifestyles are the two cardinal causes for this trend. These causes along with their effects will be analysed in this essay.
	To begin, industrialisation has brought with it the rise in standards of living for most of the world and people can afford to buy new things instead of getting the old things repaired. This is ensured by the development of the habit of spending money on things that people don’t need in the first place. Take the USA, for example, where many individuals excessively squander money from their credit cards on things that although cost a lot but have a very short lifespan such as smartphones. This phenomenon has led to an inordinate amount of cases of personal bankruptcy in the US. Hence, the devastating effects of buying new things instead of fixing the old ones are obvious.
	In addition, the modern era puts a lot of stress on the individuals, which means most of them don’t have the necessary spare time left to repair the old things. This has indirectly resulted in the increase in the amount of waste that is produced each year via the disposal of old things. For instance, a recent study conducted by the University of Balochistan, Pakistan, found that the amount of waste that an average household in Pakistan produces has quadrupled in the past few decades. Consequently, much of this waste is dumped into the rivers and seas, which has raised the pollution to exorbitant levels. Therefore, the effect on the environment that buying new things instead of getting the old ones fixed is manifested through this alarming finding.
	As is clear from the above analysis, the rise in the living standards of individuals and time constraints brought about by modernization are the primary reasons that people these days, buy new things instead of getting the old ones repaired. It is hoped that individuals will exert themselves to counter the negative ramifications brought about by this trend.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2063-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-923-the-number-of-private-cars-has-increased",
Essay 466:
	In the past few decades, mankind has made tremendous technological advances and world has truly become a small village because of globalisation. Now, more and more people are able to afford cars. This has caused an increase in the level of noise and air pollution in large cities.
	One solution would be to impose a large amount of tax on privately owned cards. This would discourage people to use their own vehicle to commute to work and utilise other means of public transport. This can definitely reduce the traffic in urban city areas. However, this only deals with a part of the population.  Rich could easily afford to pay the higher tax; while, on the other hand, only poor would be affected by this law.
	Another way government could tackle this problem is to encourage people to use public transportation. The legal authorities could introduce more comfortable and convenient trains, buses and metros to attract more people.  As a result, more and more citizens would use public transport services and thus the level of traffic and pollution would definitely reduce.
	Lastly, the government should put more money into researches to find more renewable resources such as solar power and wind instead of using coal and petrol.  In addition, there could be seminars or lectures to educate people about how our ways of living are affecting the environment. This may not be a quick solution but it does help to tackle the issues at hand in a long run.
	In summary, it is partly government's and partly individual's responsibility to pay attention to increasing pollution and find ways to reduce it if we want to leave a greener planet to our children.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2060-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-922-some-people-choose-a-career-according-to-the-social-status",
Essay 467:
	In our life choosing a career is an important factor to consider. If I had to choose between high salary and high level of enjoyment, I think I would choose the high salary. If I will choose a career for enjoyment basis only, I might not earn enough money. High paid jobs are beneficial socially and economically, as now will be discussed.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2059-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-921-fresh-water-has-always-been-a-limited-resource-in-some-parts-of-the-world",
Essay 468:
	It is undeniable that water scarcity is becoming a worldwide problem. The growth of population is the main reason for this alarming trend, but some measures could be taken to tackle this predicament.
	One the one hand, the pressure of the growing population on water resources could lead to the shortage of it. Increase number of population lead to an increased water demand in three sectors namely Agriculture, Industry and households. Firstly, from an agricultural perspective, irrigation consumes a large amount of water. Also, Agricultural industry could pollute the rest of the water by chemical compounds that used in farming like pesticides. Secondly, the industries and factories use a huge amount of water in their process. For instance, some research revealed that meat processing industry could be the main cause of water shortage in some regions of the UK. Finally, water used for household purposes could be another consequence of growth number of population and ultimately could lead to water demand.
	On the other hand, there are two main solutions to solve the problems described above. One solution is that water recycling could play an important role in water conservation. Governments should build new water pipes system for recycling and should encourage people to use recycled water. Another solution is to remove salts from sea water to enable people to use it. This process called desalination. It is now used in many countries like the USA and achieved their goal.
	In conclusion, water demand is a global problem caused mainly by the growth of population number and governments and people should be cooperated to solve this issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2058-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-920-many-people-want-their-country-to-host-an-international-sporting-event",
Essay 469:
	Throughout the 21st century, a lot of significant global events have happened at different locations. Sports, which is played among nations, is one such event which is becoming extremely popular, especially among the youngsters of the developed nations. The discussion that whether or not to host an international sporting program by a nation is advantageous is a debatable one, with strong logics provided by the supporters of both the views.
	On the one hand, a sense of patriotism will be increased among the citizens of the hosting country due to the fact that they will be proud to see their country in the international headlines, during the entire event. In addition to that, the nation's top leaders have an opportunity to hand over the price to the winners. For example, in 2005 when Brazil hosted the soccer world cup, every day the name 'Brazil' was seen in almost all media like newspapers, televisions and the internet. Secondly, motivation will be cultivated among the youths of the host country, and will actively try to play the game locally. This can bring up the sporting potential of the citizens and later help to play for the nation. For instance, the proportion of citizens playing cricket increased by 10 percent after India hosted cricket world cup in 2000. Thus, a country can have many sportsmen in the pool and pick the best ones.
	On the other hand, there are security threats especially from the terrorists or by opponents from the start to the end of the program. A lot of money needs to be spent to deploy the military forces, round the clock, to ensure that the nation is completely under control. In 2005, Brazil spent 25 million dollars to ensure that the country is secure in all aspects. Moreover, this money could be used for the starving people, especially in Africa. Thus, some people gravitate towards this point of view.
	In conclusion, although I understand that huge money needs to be spent for safety purposes, I totally agree that hosting international sporting events are advantageous for both - the hosting country and the attending countries. There should be regular sporting events held internationally every year, to promote peace and love.
Essay 470:
	International sporting events held after every three to four year all over the world. A large number of people travel across the world to support their team during the event. Some people argue that these events bring prosperity, enthusiasm, entertainment and business for the hosting nation. Others claim that it could have dire consequences and severe negative effect on the lives of local people.
	Firstly, sporting tournaments play a pivotal role in strengthening the economy of the organising country. Numerous tourists and visitors attend these events to support and lift up the morale of their teams. Local people observe a dramatic rise in the sales of their goods and services.
	Secondly, sport is a source of entertainment and fun for its followers. People get the chance to meet and enjoy the performance of their favourite sports star. Thirdly, it provides an opportunity to meet new people and understand their culture and traditions that could substantially decrease the tension between the people of rival countries. International sporting events also popularise a country to the world and thus the potential tourism industry of this country gets benefits from that.
	However, it is often seen that people burst out as their team lose the match that could exacerbate the situation in the ground and make it a battlefield. Additionally, congestion, adequate accommodation and visitor’s safety are the few issues that are caused by these events. During 2010 football world cup in Brazil, a record number of thefts and stolen cases were reported. To tackle such problems required enormous funds and detailed planning. Not all sports can attract international visitors and fans and thus many of these sporting events cost a lot while earning a little.  
	To sum up, I would like to say that international events help in minimising tensions and create stronger bonding among many nations. Successful occurring of event really helps in thriving the country’s economy and provides adverse advantages to its citizen. However, it also has some problems but that can be handled by imposing strict rules of laws and educating people.
Essay 471:
	On the one hand, it is believed that international sporting events would bring some serious problems for the host country. One of the problems is that the government needs to build new or renovate existing sports facilities, which means that they have to have a large budget for that. Many people believe that the budget could be spent on other important things such as improving public health facilities or developing a better education system. Another issue is that when the tournament is being held, tourists from all over the world would come to the country. Some people are afraid that it might threat the national security, as some terrorists might come to the country. Besides some others point that as a threat to the local way of life and traditions a country has.
	On the other hand, another group of people believe that hosting a world class sports tournament such as Olympics or Asian Games would bring so many benefits and potentials to the hosting country. Firstly, as the country needs to renovate or build new sports facilities, it means that it will create new job opportunities for the local people. Secondly, as tourist and supporters from all over the world would come to the country, it will also boost the local tourism industry. Third, tourists who come to the country will spend their money on accommodation, travel, entertainment and foods, which means that it would generate more revenue for the local businesses and for the government through taxes. Again, the sporting event would inspire local people to participate this type of sporting event and thus the country will ultimately have a generation who are good at sports. Furthermore, the country would get international exposure as a lot of people around the world would watch the sporting event and would learn about this country. This has a great benefit in terms of tourism and international trade for this country. Finally, hosting this type of sporting events often enhances the diplomatic relationship among nations and that is a great way of maintaining world peace.   
	In conclusion, it is a fact that holding an international sporting event would have its own positive and negative sides. In my personal opinion, I believe that the benefits of hosting the event are greater than the drawbacks.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2057-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-919-government-should-ban-dangerous-sporting-activities",
Essay 472:
	Activities, as it is said, keep a person young and energetic. It is in tune with it that a person must always keep oneself occupied with an activity of any sort. Sporting activity is one of many activities which pay no heed to the age barrier.
	As a matter of fact, sporting activities contribute a lot towards the physical fitness, mental ability / balance and overall characteristic of an individual. However, a ‘dangerous’ sporting activity must be undertaken by an individual with an extra caution. Though a dangerous sporting activity is generally performed due to a sudden rush of adrenalin but the consequences of such an activity are not reasonably positively skewed. The probability of an untoward incident, while performing a dangerous sporting activity, is always high.
	It is due to this reason that State interference, to a reasonable extent, is welcome. The activities which are more skewed towards the possibility of a fatal accident must be regulated and consequently banned by the government.
	However, there is another school of thought which is on the view that individuals must be accorded the freedom to choose the sport according to their wishes. The ideology of the followers of this school of thought is that the individual is matured enough to understand what is more beneficial to him. However, they fail to look beyond the veil, probably reason due to which an individual undertakes the performance of such dangerous acts. The reasons may vary from peer pressure, family circumstances, financial needs or just momentary pleasure. Whatever may be the reason, an individual must not be given the liberty to put his life, and consequently the life of his dependents, at risk. The fortnightly sports magazine, The Risktakers, did share the views of the son of the famous skydiver, Peterson, who met with an accident while trying to attempt skiing after getting himself released from the parachute at a height of only 15 feet above the ground level.
	Yet another interview with the daughter of another renowned sports person, Robinson, revealed the sad story wherein after the death of his paratrooper father, it became difficult for her to make her both ends meet during her teenage. The only reason for the death of her father was that he wanted to set a record of jumping from an unbelievable height.
	In the end, I am of the opinion that there should be the complete ban on the dangerous sporting activities as it is the survivors of the deceased who has to pay a heavy price for the acts of their mentors.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2056-many-parents-have-little-time-for-their-children",
Essay 473:
	With the passage of time, there have been tremendous changes in the behaviour and consequently the lifestyles of people, especially the young and working couples. Yet another factor which has played the role of a catalyst is the ‘materialistic need’ of the human in the ever-changing pattern of living in the modern times. Due to such unrealistic expectations from the life, the parents have started devoting much of their time towards satisfying their materialistic needs at the cost of the ‘precious gift’ that they have been blessed with, by the Almighty, their children.
	Children, for their parents, are dearer than fine opals, more precious than Emeralds! However, due to the discontentment in the life of parents, it is the innocent childhood which has to pay a heavy price.
	In the yesteryears, even though the means of livelihood were limited but the quality time spent with children was enough to boost confidence amongst them and make the children a successful and a matured individual.  However, in the modern times, though there has been a manifold increase in the means of livelihood, but the price at which such an increase is achieved is negatively skewed. It is the children who are devoid of the, much needed, attention which they truly and rightly deserve.
	In a recent interview published in the local tabloid, the renowned choreographers of the famous band, OPEXA, did share their own experience wherein they blamed themselves (husband and wife) for the unhealthy upbringing of their children which ultimately led to their children becoming victims of drug abuse. In the end, I agree that though there is the need to adapt according to the modern lifestyles and requirements but the same must not be achieved at the cost of innocence, love, warmth and tenderness of one’s children.
	The childhood, after all, is as sacred as the temple, as holy as the bible and hence should be re-lived, re-enjoyed by the parents of the children. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2055-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-917-crime-is-nearly-always-related-to-the-environment-in-which-it-occurs",
Essay 474:
	Crime is an act which is said to be done when an action, either done or not done, is performed as against the conduct prescribed by the law. The crimes committed within the territory of a country are dealt by the courts constituted to take note of such crimes within the country. Whereas, on the other hand, crimes that are committed outside the territory of a country are taken care of by the international law courts, which are constituted by deliberate efforts of several countries. Hence, the crimes committed outside the territorial jurisdiction of a country are termed as International crimes and are dealt in accordance with the International laws in the International Law Courts.
	The environment of a country does make a great impact on the commission of a crime. In case, there is rampant unemployment or irregular distribution of income amongst the habitats of a country, the environment is congenial for the growth of crimes. On the other hand, if the population of a country is in consensus with the employment opportunities available, the environment is congenial for a healthy and secure life.
	One of the glaring examples of the effect of environment on the commission of a crime can be seen from the crime graph of European countries and their counterparts in the continent of Asia. The data, as provided in the latest edition of the crime magazine, the Outlaws, clearly depicts the crime graph negatively skewed against the Asian countries. Apart from this, the horror stories of terrorism in the current scenario also support that the environment of a country does have an impact on crime.
	The role of International Laws and International Law Courts is totally absent in reducing the crime levels within the territory of a country.  However, their role is very important in the case of crimes committed by a country outside its territory. Again, as already said, the crime is committed due to the environment in which a country is. Hence, a country which is internally in turmoil will, most probably, resort to crimes even on the international soil where the International Laws are adhered to.
	In the end, I do agree that the environment, both within and outside, a country has a negative impact on its habitat who resort to crime. However, the presence of international laws and international law courts is unrealistic to reduce crime levels within different countries but does play a positive role to solve and reduce crime levels, when committed outside the country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2054-tobacco-and-alcohol-are-drugs-that-cause-addiction-and-health-problems",
Essay 475:
	Cigarettes and alcohol negatively influence human health and lead to very bad addiction. While some people believe that smoking and drinking alcohol do not have that much detriment effect on health and should be sold freely, I firmly believe that smoking and alcohol are drugs that lead to health problems and addiction and, as a result, they should be prohibited.
	First of all, tobacco is a silent killer not only for smokers but also for people around. Smoking is known as a cause of more than 25 different deadly diseases including lung cancer, bronchitis and emphysema. According to the recent statistics, four million people around the world die yearly from tobacco-related diseases - one death every eight seconds. Tobacco is significantly becoming a greater cause of death and disability than any other single cause. Therefore, smoking cigarettes is a huge global threat and should be illegal. The number of female and young smokers is increasing globally and completely banning cigarettes could be an effective measure to enhance public health. The amount of money a country spend each year to treat people who suffer from tobacco-related diseases could be better utilised to treat other patients.   
	The next point that needs to be taken into consideration is alcohol that has already become a serious problem during the last centuries. More and more people use alcohol every day and sometimes not only a glass of wine during the evening but also far more than usual. As a result, this group of people becomes unhealthy. Moreover, drinking too much alcohol can lead to more serious problems such as brain damage and even can cause a separation with the partner and break a family. Moreover, children struggle a lot from drunkard parents. Therefore, alcohol should be banned globally. The negative health and social problems the alcohol creates are enormous and the banning it will bring more social stability, morality and better life expectancy.  
	To sum up, from my point of view, cigarettes and alcohol are two greatest threats to the society and our health. They lead to various problems and harm not only individuals who use it but also others, surrounding them. I believe that people can live their lives more happily without those heinous drugs and substance.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2053-governments-should-provide-retirement-homes",
Essay 476:
	Whether taking care of elder citizens is the sole responsibility of family members or that should be supported by the government is a very controversial issue. With the increasing life expectancy and modern healthcare system the number of senior citizens is increasing in most of the countries and how those old people should be supported is an issue that indeed requires a comprehensive discussion.
	First of all, the people should themselves prepare for their old ages and save money so that they do not have to rely solely on others for their maintenance. It is quite a hard reality that if an old person has a good amount of money and properties the number of people to look after him would be plenty. The reverse is also true and that’s why the people should always have plans for savings for their rainy days.
	However, old people not only needs medical support, a place to live and nurses to look after them, they also need people to talk to them, care them and spend time with them which money cannot buy. The family members must take care of their elder parents or grandparents and spend time with them rather than sending them to a retirement home. It is quite inhuman to send an old family member to an old home while s/he has cared for the family members for the whole life. The debt we have to our grandparents and parents could never be repaid, however, we should try to at least repay them some by caring them in a way they did when we were children.  
	Finally, not all old people will have close relatives and family members to look after them. The government would have to support the older generation who have served the country and society with their every effort. The old people have all paid tax when they were employed and thus the government has a natural obligation to support the old people by providing improved medical support, retirement homes with all necessary facilities. The government does not have control whether a family decides to take care of an old member or send them in a retirement home. But proper arrangement and facilities for those elderly should be supported by the government.
	In conclusion, I believe that supporting older people is an issue that should be backed up in every way possible.  A young person should take preparation for his old age while the family members and governments should play their role so that those fragile and helpless old people do not suffer at all.
Essay 477:
	Nowadays people are living more than 80 or even 100 years and most of them are unable to look after themselves. The controversy over who is responsible for providing service for elderly people is hot debated. Some individuals suggest that families are required to care the old people, others argue that the government should organise retirement homes for older people.
	In many countries, people firmly believe that families should take care the old ones who are unable to do it themselves. For example, in Russia and China, it is common believe that it is a responsibility of families and if a family decide to send their parents to the retirement home it is considered disrespectful. Therefore, most of the families do it themselves. There is a general believe that families can care better and provide reasonable services to their old generation rather than it could be done in the retirement homes where the service is poor and not sufficient enough. Not only this, it is considered that the most significant source of happiness can give grandchildren and children to the elderly whereas it cannot be provided by any of the retirement places.
	On the other hand, the different opinion exists that the government should ensure a place in the retirement homes for elderly. For example, in Australia and Canada people argue that the government should give a place to the eldest when they are unable to provide care for themselves because the families should work, raise their children and live their lives most of all looking after themselves and the next generation. In those countries, the way of thinking and believes vary to Russia and China and people can rely on such institutions like retirement homes to look after their parents where the service is good and pleasant.
	To sum up, there are two opinions about who should look after the old individuals and for different countries, there is a different way to go. In my opinion, no matter who takes care the old parents, it should be done properly and from the bottom of the hard. In the perfect situation, a balance is required between families and the retirement homes to look after the eldest.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2052-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-914-newspapers-and-books-are-outdated",
Essay 478:
	Many people think that printed newspapers and books are outdated these days, as they believe that online news and electronic books are more relevant and updated to the current condition. The two types have their own benefits and it will depend on the preference of each individual, and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	On the one hand, it is true that hardcopy versions of newspapers and books are outdated compared to online versions. The online newspaper or book can be immediately updated or revised by their editors from their servers, therefore readers will always get the latest news. And then, it is easier to purchase online literature as people would just open their gadgets, log in and insert their credit card numbers, and they could get new articles.
	On the other hand, although several people think that printed media are old fashioned, but certain people prefer to buy these outdated versions. Firstly, they believe that reading print out versions is better that online ones because they have fewer side effects to the eyes. They think that reading books using gadgets will have negative effects on their visual, as these devices are producing some radiations which could irritate the eyesight. Secondly, a lot of people prefer to buy the hardcopy version, because they like to collect them. Many people are collecting print out versions of comics because it is their hobby and they have certain kind of satisfactions when they could keep them for collections.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that more and more people are reading online newspapers and books these days, but some people still choose to read the print out version. These two versions have their own advantages, so in my opinion people should choose in accordance to their passion. But the most important thing is that no matter what the type is, people should not stop reading, as reading give a lot of benefits for their readers.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2051-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-913-the-only-way-to-cut-the-crime-rate-is-build-more-prisons",
Essay 479:
	As we see nowadays the crime rate has increased comparatively and many people think that building more prisons and putting people inside for a long time will help to reduce the crime rate but actually this is not the solution in my opinion.
	The first thing we need to do is to control the crime rate in the society by raising awareness in people and through positive media. The media has a very important role in raising awareness in common population through television and the Internet. The young generation is deeply influenced by the violence based movies and such movies should not me made instead positive messages should be given to the innocent minds so that tomorrow they become the useful citizens.
	Another important issue is the increased use of unlicensed weapons openly in society as it is seen commonly now that on small issues people lose their tempers and don't hesitate in using guns. At the same time, security should be increased at society level like in small towns and other neglected places and security automobiles number should also be increased.
	The idea of increasing the prison number and holding the criminals long time inside is not a very sensible idea because it is observed that people start making organised gangs inside the jails and sometimes become big criminals than they were ever before. Instead of wasting this money on extending the prison system Government should invest this money on beneficial plans for a nation like constructing modern hospitals, improving the pre-existing health sector and giving better education standards.
	To sum up , raising awareness can make a remarkable difference in people's attitude and can decline the crime rates. this is a far better approach than increasing the number of prisons and prolonging the punishment period.
Essay 480:
	It is believed that the best way to reduce crime is by adding more prisons and making the detention period longer. To a certain point, I would agree with the idea but it is not the only way, as there are other alternatives that government could do to reduce the crime rate.
	On the one hand, some people believe that by building more prisons and making a stricter detention period, it will be possible to reduce the number of crime activities. It is hoped that people will think twice before they do some criminal acts, as there are a lot of available rooms in prisons, and they could be sentenced for such a long period. For example, if the government set new regulation whereas bank robbers will be punished for a thirty-five years period of detention, then it is expected that people who plan to do this will consider all the consequences for a number of times before they rob a bank.
	However, the government should notice that adding more prisons and setting a longer detention period is not the only way, as it should be integrated with other plans as well. In the common case, people do crimes because they have less skill, no money and unemployed, and as a consequence, they do some crimes for survival. Besides of the above-mentioned plan, the government should also provide skill training for low skill residents, therefore they could enter the workplace and would not think about doing some crime activities. And then, the government should also provide job opportunities for ex-prisoners, as in the general case, many of them were not accepted by the public and consequently, they returned to the crime world again.
	In conclusion, to a certain extent, I agree that building more prisons and extending the sentence period would be a good plan for lowering the crime rate. But, it should also be combined with other plans such as providing skill course for the poor and create some works for ex-convicts, therefore the plan would run effectively.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2050-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-912-what-can-employers-do-to-help-employees",
Essay 481:
	The economic inflation, increased unemployment and nature of businesses around the globe have made it mandatory for employees to work longer hours. The long and challenging working hours, social and economical condition and modernization have also increased the amount of stress we feel in our working places. I would say a positive and balanced lifestyle, realistic expectation and support from the employers can address this pressing issue.
	First of all, managing a decent job and earning livings have become competitive nowadays. The economic inflation has made it quite tough to live a standard life and to support the family. While the 50% of the world property are owned by merely 7% of people, more than 50% people in the world have very little to support their family and children. So when they get a job they are ready to work as many hours as their employers demand to earn a living. Without a job those people will starve and they are mostly factory workers and labours who comprise the largest portion of the workforce in many countries.
	There are plenty of qualified graduates who are struggling to get a job only because the competition is too high. So when someone solely relies on the salary he earns, he has to obey the rule imposed by the employers and it is not uncommon that many private organisations expect the employees to work more than 10 hours per day. The government’s lack of control in private industries in many countries is the reason why employees in these companies have to work longer hours.
	The businesses nowadays are transforming to global nature and it is not rare for many companies to have offshore offices. In many technology-related companies, people are working more than 14 hours per day and remaining attached with their colleagues from home. The long working hours, job responsibility, peer pressure and sedentary lifestyle of employees are increasing the stress related issues faster than any time in history. The increased violence, corruption and crime are also the reasons many employees in the defence and public sectors suffer from stress. Interestingly the bad traffic in many cities is one of the major reasons people feel stressed while commuting to their offices.
	The employers can play a great role to reduce the working hours and thus controlling the work related pressures among employees. In fact, long working hours is not a guarantee of better productivity and the employers have to understand that. They can reduce the working hours, offers leaves and support morally to keep their employees happy. The employers should understand the impact of performance between a stressed and a happy employee. Simple appreciation from an employer can make a great impact and the employers have to respect their employees not treat them as servants.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2049-education-a-child-receives-at-home-from-having-parents",
Essay 482:
	Undeniably, it is a heated debate who can teach children better- parents or educators in a school? Children mimic their parents' behaviours, and I personally believe that parents roles are more influential than that of teachers in schools.
	to begin with, we cannot discard the impact of education which students learn in institutions. One important factor is how much their academic knowledge can increase. Compared to parents, teachers have higher academic performance due to the amount of training they have. In particular, in science, they know more about the details of nature or technology, transferring them to their students; however, parents are not professional trainers. Furthermore, children may become less socially active if they only rely on their parents’ teaching. Communicating with the other peers in school, they can learn more about social interactions, while those studying home can become more isolated. In my case, never could I become a socially adolescent if I did not have enough communication with other classmates.
	On the other hand, I agree that the role of parents in the teaching of their offspring cannot be forgotten. One reason behind it is that they are trustworthy. Definitely, because there is a closer relationship between parents and their children emotionally, there is a firmer trust between them, whereas school instructors are less trustful. As a prime example, I could not rely on the social worker working in the secondary school I studied because he was a rigid person, even in general appearance, and many students could not trust his words. Another factor is that children spend more time with their parents than the trainers in school. Obviously, parents are able to find better their probable children’s behavioural problems due to spending long hours with them. In contrast, teachers spend less time with each student, leading to missing each one’s misconduct problems.
	In conclusion, the role of parents is more powerful on their children’s training than the tutors teaching in schools. From my perspective, parents are emotionally closer and have more enough time to educate their children. Had not they only taught by their parents, more educational and behavioural problems would have been left.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2047-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-910-people-with-no-talent-become-rich-and-famous",
Essay 483:
	In current years, the world of entertainment has become a highly fashionable trend. The belief that everyone is capable of doing any kind of thing in arts -music, literature, acting, art, and so on- has become a mainstream attitude. Undoubtedly, pure talent is no longer valued or appreciated as many untalented people become wealthy and popular. As regards this case, I personally disagree with this phenomena which I will further scrutinise the reasons along with related examples.
	The first reason which I want to propose is the fact that people without any talent on arts will likely degrade the value of arts. As we acknowledge that arts are abstract concepts which require the sense of aesthetic from the inside and outer sides. I strongly believe that even they take certain education degree in arts, yet the nature of talent speaks louder than the nurtured ones. As the result, less talented artists most likely produce a burst of plain performances. A good example of this is the increasing number of instant artists entering the entertainment industry which basically solely requires their beautiful face and body as the prerequisites. Another reason is that this issue will deplete creativity which tends to create a soap opera instead of a masterpiece. We can see this in the recent phenomena when people just easily upload their wacky sensational video on YouTube to elevate their popularity. Indeed, there are no remarkable arts in it.
	It is true that some scholars state that people without any initial talent can gain it through education both formal and informal courses. However, some other experts prove that no talent unlikely can compete with the genuine ones. For instance, Beyonce who is widely known as one of the most talented singers stays everlasting in her career rather than the YouTube’s instant artist who mostly fade away in a short time.
	To sum up, I disagree that untalented people enter the entertainment industry as nature and nurture are mutually exclusive in many ways. I believe that pure talent must be more appreciated in a wider proportion.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2046-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-909-how-do-you-think-society-will-be-affected-by-the-growth-of-telecommuting",
Essay 484:
	It is true that telecommuting has revolutionised our life on many ways. In my opinion, I believe that telecommuting has both positive and negative effects on our society.
	On the one hand, telecommuting has many benefits on our planet generally and our social life specifically. Firstly, telecommuting could reduce pressure on earth resources. Telecommuting commuters tend to travel less to their workplaces. As a result, this could decrease pressure on urban infrastructures like roads and public transportation services and ultimately could save natural fossil resources and decrease pollution. Secondly, working from home could modify our family relationships. People spend more time with their families and this increase family tidiness and stability. For instance, some social workers link telecommuting with decrease divorce rates in many western countries. It is a very effective way to enhance the performance of the employees and thus producing increased output for a company. This reduces the costs and ensures better profitability. One of the main objectives of technological advancement is the faster and more tasks done per hour. Telecommuting ensures this very perfectly. 
	On the other hand, telecommuting could have some negative impacts. One problem is that working from home could result in many health problems. Telecommuting forces people to move less and do more desk jobs. This sedentary lifestyle could lead to many health problems like obesity. Another drawback of telecommuting is that it may affect our social life negatively. Working from home without exposure to real work life could reduce people interaction skills and could ultimately lead to social isolation.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that the potential dangers of telecommuting on our health and social life are more significant than the possible benefits.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2045-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-908-the-traditional-idea-that-the-woman-s-place-is-in-the-home",
Essay 485:
	Nowadays, the role of females has thoroughly become different compared to the past. While they had to take responsibility for home duties far more than males, now their roles in the workforce has become more obvious. Some individuals might disagree with it; however, I personally believe that both genders must equally be permitted to participate in different careers.
	On the one hand, the role of women was mostly catering for their children and related duties of home, and some say that this was extremely important to societies. One obvious benefit was that their children were more under control than now. Mothers had more time to raise their children and had sufficient control over their children’s behaviour, while unfortunately now they are more involved in their job and have less opportunity to have a close relationship with them. Another advantage was that this could have a positive influence on couples’ relationships, and the rate of successful marriage partners was far higher than now. For instance, in the USA, because of this change, the percentage of divorce increased dramatically, from 10% in the 1970s to just over 25% in 2000s, according to a report in a US family magazine.
	On the other hand, I personally agree with the method supporting females have the identical fortune to work in different jobs. One important factor behind it is that they are and will be more talented in different fields of jobs because they are more prosperous workers or scientists. As a prime example, in space, they have a better tolerance to difficult conditions they face than the male ones. Their physiology can help them to adapt better to some weird weather conditions and they have been successful as similar as men in their job. Furthermore, it is based on humans’ rights. Apparently, all humans must be given equal opportunity to live and work, and all national organisations are trying to develop this policy. Females can have better performance in all types of jobs, especially in those linking to emotion. In this way, had not they allowed to work as a psychologist, less depressed patients would have been cured appropriately!
	In conclusion, while in the past women had less role in working, now they have more crucial roles. From my point of view, it will be against the basics of humans’ rights if they are not given permission to work similar to men, and their aptitude is valuable in some specific types of jobs, far than men.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2044-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-907-what-are-the-factors-related-to-academic-success-in-high-school",
Essay 486:
	It is a fact that every high school student has his/her own different capacity in terms of academic study. Some students might have good results in arts while others might be good at science or mathematics. However, despite the subject that the student likes, there are several factors that will affect to his/her achievements, and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	Firstly, it is important for students to get some attention from their parents. Some parents do spend times for discussing the projects at school, share the knowledge and give some advice to their children. Many people do not realise that these kinds of simple activities could influence and motivate children in achieving their best results at school.
	Secondly, teachers should not rank some subjects at school. Some teachers believe that subjects such as mathematics or sciences are more superior than arts or physical educations. This kind of attitude should be prohibited at schools, as some students might perform well at sports while others are good at literature. Instead of classifying some subjects, teachers should learn to acknowledge the talent of their students and support them.
	Last but not least, high-school students should have a positive mindset. They should focus on studying all subjects that are taught at school, though some of them might not be their favourite subjects. They should understand clearly that all courses will be useful for them in the future. For example, although some students might become professional doctors in the future, it is important for them to study about accounting as well since they have to manage their own financial matters.
	In conclusion, there are many factors that affect the academic success of a secondary school student. But in my opinion, the three important factors are the supportive parents, teachers’ fairness and the positive mindset of the student him/herself.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2043-communicate-either-professionally-or-socially-using-technology",
Essay 487:
	Technology is permeating every aspect of human lives. This is apparent in the way in which both individuals and corporations are increasingly using technology to communicate rather than relying on the conventional face to face interactions. The advantages and disadvantages of this development will be analysed in this essay.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2042-what-many-people-eat-in-western-countries-is-unhealthy",
Essay 488:
	The issue of unhealthy food in western countries has become an inevitable issue for people that influence people’s diet. Moreover, some researchers recommend those people to change their diets. I personally agree with these views.
	On the other hand, some researchers recommend people in western countries to change the diet from modern food into traditional food that naturally contains much nutrients, vitamins, minerals and calories. I believe that changing the diets will make people be avoided from the dangerous substance that influence the health. Moreover, even though people use the technology to produce as well as modify food production but by considering the importance of healthy diets people will use it effectively and safely.
	In short, people in western countries are provoked by media as well as the technology use in food production that probably add chemical substance inside the food. By considering these factors, people should change the diets into the traditional food that is more natural as well as healthier.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2041-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-904-it-is-pointless-to-try-and-keep-traditional-skills-and-ways-of-life-alive",
Essay 489:
	These days, it has become a fashionable trend for a country trying to develop its technology. However, at the same time, this condition has changed and made several aspects such as ability as well as the way of life ignored by society. Some argue that it will be useless to make it up or keep it sustains because automatically technology brings a lot changes to the society. Personally, I strongly disagree that technology will bring negative impacts for a country when a country tries to adapt it. I will explain that in this essay according to my opinions and views. 
	Firstly, technology takes a vaccinating role in the global society, especially for a country. A country that tries to adapt technology as the foundation of lifestyle indirectly traditional aspects will improve and a country will find a platform to promote their culture globally. For example, Japan as a country shows progressive development in technology by creating many variations of technology. Japan still makes their culture known well by people around the world. At the same time, a lot of findings or creations were done by experts in Japan but traditional skills or the way of life still remain same.
	Furthermore, technology helps to promote cultural and traditional aspects from a country. Today there are many countries tend to use technology to introduce their culture as well as their lifestyle in different parts of the world. For instance Indonesia, Ministry of Information and Technology succeed to promote culture and Indonesian lifestyle in South East Asia region during SEA Olympiad by using the internet and mobile television. Based on research by Indonesian media association 25,000 people reached because the way of advertising by using technology.
	In conclusion, even though some people still believe that technology will change a lot of aspects of a country but I believe that technology supports a country’s development, society to be introduced, and make a country well known worldwide when a country develop technology in the right way. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2040-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-903-young-drivers-are-careless-and-overconfident",
Essay 490:
	It is becoming increasingly difficult to ignore the significance of road accidents and associated loss of life on the roads, especially due to rash and reckless driving by youngsters. It is clear that the number of accidents can be prevented with awareness programs so I am of the opinion that, these programs must be started at school level itself.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2038-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-902-students-should-continue-their-study-abroad-than-to-study-at-home",
Essay 491:
	Education is one of the essential things in people’s live because it will help us to face the globalisation era. Talking about going abroad for the study is a common thing. There are no doubts when people want to study overseas. At the first time it will make them shocked or frustrated because of the new culture of atmosphere, but then it will create many advantages. Personally, I really do agree that students should continue their study abroad rather than study at home because there are some benefits and it will produce an exciting prospect for future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2036-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-901-global-warming-is-the-most-pressing-environmental-problem",
Essay 492:
	Ever since the dawn of industrialisation, world’s environment has been changing in a drastic manner. Many of these changes are of negative nature. Some argue that global warming is the most serious environmental issue that we deal with, while others contend deforestation has a much more damaging impact on the earth’s environment. Both sides of this debate will be analysed in this essay before a reasoned conclusion is drawn.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2035-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-900-the-experience-of-non-academic-life-offers-benefits-for-individual",
Essay 493:
	In recent years, there is a remarkable trend for young people to have a gap year before pursuing the higher level of education in this case entering university education. Some assert that university education is a study-level which tends to provide specialist knowledge for students. However, I personally believe that participating in a workplace or visiting other parts of countries will bring some benefits when they come to a university. Therefore, this essay will look into some reasons with some considerations.
Essay 494:
	At recent years, it has become a favourable trend for high school’s alumni to take a year break before conducting further study in university. People speculate discussing this topic causing the different notions whether this provides benefits or gives negative impacts. I believe that taking the break will give teenagers positive effects which I will elaborate below.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2034-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-899-people-work-hard-to-buy-more-things-in-life",
Essay 495:
	In Today's world status of a person is judged by the car he drives, the branded clothes he wears, branded phone he owns, the posh place he stays in and so on. It has become an endless battle which never going to stop because there is no end to it.
	In order to appear cooler in front of other people and to achieve more and more comfort people have become more and more materialistic and money minded. They have lost their traditional values with this mind shift. It has gone so deep into the value system of present generation that it has become very difficult to understand the value of people and relationships.
	The desire to rise in their career which is considered good have bound people to leave their cities, even their countries to move and settle in different developed cities and countries. People sometimes leave their families, values and beliefs. They do that so that they can enjoy the comfortable lifestyle and afford homes in posh cities, buy luxurious brands. This is good as long as they lead a balanced life and don't let materialism corrupt their mindset. However, it has been seen that people who get used to the luxurious lifestyle may often leave their families, especially their old parents alone who took care of them during childhood. For them, a relationship doesn't hold much importance but money and materialism do. They get fascinated and value people who are leading the lifestyle they admire rather than respecting and loving their loved ones.
	This not only shows people in the modern world have become self-centered and selfish but also show how hollow can one person’s thought process be. They never realise even after spending lots and lots of money in the rat race of comfort and materialism they are still unhappy and lonely from deep inside. Even worse, in some cases, they have lost the love of their loved ones whom they left alone.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2032-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-898-economic-growth-has-made-some-people-richer",
Essay 496:
	Money cannot guarantee people's happiness. It is proved by experts that although economic growth has made people richer, people from developed countries feel less happy than they were before. In contrast, in poor countries, wealth make them happier. I will outline the reason why this phenomenon happened.
	In the case of developed countries, they are never starving. In the past, they can found meal everywhere and able to bought it. Before technology advanced, they already went to work such as farming or work in a factory. They had enough money to prevent them from starving. Another reason is the time of working. They worked several hours and have time to take a rest. Meanwhile, in recent year, they work overlap time hours. They have no time to do their interest or go on vacations with their family. It is because of competition among people. Their ambition encourages them to pursue their goal and achievement for enhancing their status.
	On the other hand, residents of developing countries feel happier than they were before because they ever lived in a lack of education and food. In the past, it was really hard for them to buy some food and studied in formal education. But today, since they are richer than before, they can get both of those terms. They can buy an important stuff for their life. Another reason is they can manage their time working well, so they still have time to interact with other people.
	In conclusion, I must say that what we can learn about two cases above is to love our life. It is true that we need to work and earn money for our life but it cannot be denied that we need to enjoy our life with our lovely people. So, we need to thanks for everything we have and we got.
Essay 497:
	The world economy has improved significantly in the past few years and made several people become wealthier in both advanced and developing countries. Based on the research, it is found that people who live in developing countries are enjoying their lives more than before nowadays, while those who live advanced countries are no happier that before. The following essay will discuss in details about some of the reasons and what can we learn from it.
	On the one hand, it is a fact the world economic has grown rapidly in the past recent years. Many developing and developed countries have experienced some positive improvements in the economic sectors, as their GDP have increased and inflation rate got lower. Some of the people have taken the advantage and as a consequence, they became richer. The economic growth has created a lot of new billionaires these days, such as the CEO of Air Asia Tony Fernandez and the Mital Family from India.
	Based on some scientific studies, it is found that people who live in developing countries are happier than ever nowadays, as their economic condition has grown rapidly in the past few years. As some of the people’s lives and economic status have changed dramatically from poor to middle-income class, they felt grateful and pleased with the improvement and enjoyed their lives. In contrast to the condition above, developed countries’ people are no happier than they were before. Should there be any improvement in their economic status, it would not give any significant changes into their way of lives, as they already have a high standard of living. Many of them already have their own properties and vehicles, and their government already provided them with good public health, education and transportation system. Therefore it is harder for them to feel grateful in terms of their economic condition.
	In conclusion, it is true that the world economic have grown rapidly in the past few decades, and it has made some of the people in developing and developed countries become wealthier. Is it reported that as the economic sector in developing countries are growing, the people are feeling are happier than ever before, as many of them have experienced drastic changes in their ways of living. Many of them have successfully escaped from poverty problems and change their economic status. On the other hand, many people who live in advanced countries are no happier than before, as they already live in a better and comfort situation.
Essay 498:
	At recent years, the economic conditions have been developed in all countries in the world. However, it seems that developing countries have better achievement in increasing their happiness indicator rather than developed countries. There are several things that can be learned from this phenomenon and I will try to elaborate them in this essay.
	Psychologically, rich countries have achieved their economic peak describing the massive productivity and superiority in well-known thrived multinational industries and by the time passed by the stagnancy occurred. Dissimilar with it, emerging countries have been trying so hard to pursue the enrollment in economy indicators, and as a result, they achieved them and easily felt happy with the overwhelming results. This is the dire impact for developed countries because they are afraid by the economy theory stating there will be always a victim in economic competition.
	Apart from that, developing countries have been thriving so fast by fixing their government expenditure, increasing and improving the environment of local businesses which drive the huge number of investments. As results, there is up-going growth in employment indicators and an improvement in individual spending because they have revenues by huge working opportunities. These happen in China, Brazil, Indonesia, and India. Meanwhile, developed countries such America, Japan, and European Industrial Countries have maximised the usage of their resources so they are encouraged to develop their factories overseas by outsourcing the workers from local developing countries which give benefits for poor countries in many ways.
	In conclusion, the theory of “economy cycle” driven by business cycle theory is inevitable arguing that a country who has reached the maximum outcomes in economy, will suffer a daunt fall whether it will be significant or steady is based on the effective efforts by the country.
Essay 499:
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2031-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-897-factors-related-to-academic-success-in-high-school-students",
Essay 500:
	Annually, a wide range of students in all around the world, graduating from high schools, are excited that how they could achieve their greatest successes by experiencing in academic life. Thus, the remarkable question taking shape in individuals’ mind is that what key factors could lead them to acquire such greatest benefits in universities. It is supposed to be discussed these crucial ingredients in the following paragraphs.
	As the most considerable element in the way of finding success in academic life is that the students choose the best field of study, which they are really interested in; Above all, they are talented in that. To put it simply, the more their field matches with their conviction, the more chance they could have to make their future professional life. In this way, the parents and teachers could play a pivotal role in clarifying the students` talents.
	Another chief agent in this matter is the quality of university which student apply in. According to a diversity of institutes and universities, it could be important to find an adequate place that offers the student facilities ranging from academics to educational equipment.
	As the last point, it should be noted that taking advantage of a suitable situation for studying at home and university alike, could contribute to students concentrate on their subjects and possess opportunities to do widely research in their field.
	In conclusion, there is no doubt that graduating from high school and beginning an academic life could be a great honour for both students and their families. However, it would not be achieved the tremendous successes without paying heed to the decisive elements which some of those were briefly stated in the above paragraphs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2030-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-896-health-care-and-education-should-be-the-responsibility-of-the-government",
Essay 501:
	As people have paid taxes to the government, it is believed that they should be provided with free healthcare and qualified education. However, others disagree with the statement, as they think that each individual should be responsible for his or her own health and education. The following essay will discuss both views in details.
	On the one hand, many people believe that it is the government's responsibility to provide standard health care and decent education to their people. As people have paid income taxes, property taxes, value added taxes and other kinds of fees to the government, these funds should also be beneficial for the people as well. Some portions of the budget should be allocated to fund medical activities and educational programs. Having a lot of educated and healthy residents brings many benefits for the government, as there are a lot of skill and productive labours in the country who would develop the country's economic sector.    
	On the other hand, some people believe that health and education is a personal matter as it is the responsibility of each individual to maintain own their health and education. They disagree if education and healthcare should be funded from the taxes. They think that it is unfair because some people might be working hard and paid a large amount of taxes, but others might be indolent or jobless and get the same benefits from the government. Therefore they believe that healthcare and education should be standalone institutions, and each people should pay for getting a good education and maintaining their own health.
	In conclusion, to a certain point, I would agree that it is the government's task to provide education and healthcare for their people, as some poor people might not be able to get a good education and decent healthcare. However, although these services might be provided by the government for free, each individual's must be responsible for their own education and healthcare, as these services are funded by taxes that are paid by the public.
Essay 502:
	In today's world, healthcare and education are two most important parts of people's life. Further, without proper education and sufficient health care system, a country can’t develop. However, the government has the responsible to create a healthy nation.  Personally, I believe that the government should provide basic needs to create a  healthy life and an educated nation independently. 
	Everyone prefer to have a fascinating life, but we cannot do whatever we want.  Therefore, we have sacrificed some, such as drugs, tobacco, alcohol, and junk foods etc.  for a healthy life. In the present days, people are busy with their day to day work. As a result majority of them are not having balanced diets and some of them take fast food or junk food. They do not concern health and also it will cause many diseases in future.  For example, obesity, diabetes etc  Further, from the young age everyone should concern about their health. Especially people not only should think about the physical health but also consider the mental health.
	That is why the government should provide better health care and education for all citizens. The government is created by the taxes from valuable workforces of their country. Therefore, the government has the responsibility to offer them free health care facilities, heath education programme: such as healthy diet, clinics or hospitals for free medicine, etc. Further, the government can use social media to distribute health and education programme. Because nowadays, the majority of people are connected in social media. For example facebook, twitter etc. In addition, the government should implement such a law in order to increase a balanced lifestyle. For instance, due to the overpopulation of China, they have limited only one child for one family.
	In conclusion, when I consider all given points it is clear that only the government cannot make a healthy nation. Therefore, individuals should have concerns to prevent future health issues. However, the government should enforce such a law in order to increase our standard of lifestyle and also provide basic needs to the people who are expected from the government. In fact, in my opinion, the government and individuals are both responsible for building a healthy nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2029-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-895-some-people-always-want-the-newest-products-made-by-technology",
Essay 503:
	Since the dawn of time, technology has been advancing. For the past years, it introduced latest models to the public market. It is agreed that some people will always want to buy the newest model a technology has to offer for reasons such as happiness, passion about new technology, status, getting advanced features and socialisation. These reasons will now be analysed.
	For one, many people want to purchase new things for happiness. For example, my boyfriend has given me the latest iPhone 6 plus from the apple company. It has always been my dream to have this and so this gave the ultimate happiness I have never experienced in my entire life. This makes it clear that buying new products will make people satisfied.
	In addition to this, it makes people more sociable. For instance, with the apple iPhone 6 plus my loved one has given me, I can now connect to my friends and relatives whether here in the Philippines or abroad through using Facebook, Integra and yahoo messenger accounts anytime and anywhere. It is obvious from this that buying new technology will make people sociable.
	New technology always comes with advanced features and people want the best tools to do their tasks. For example, a new computer or laptop comes with more storage capacity and other advancement and facilities that often allure a person to buy the latest model though s/he already has one.
	People often purchase new models of technological devices as part of their status. For instance, someone who has a car that completely satisfies the needs of this person would want to buy the latest model always. They prefer status over needs.
	In conclusion, for reasons like being happy, advanced technology, more features, ease of use, passion and more sociable, people want the latest products advanced technology has to offer. These reasons are good for some people. So it is recommended to buy newest products as long as you can afford them.
Essay 504:
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2028-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-894-many-people-prefer-to-watch-foreign-films-than-locally-produced-films",
Essay 505:
	In many countries, especially in developing countries, foreign movies are more popular than the locally made films. There are several reasons for this trend and the government can and should greatly contribute to promoting domestic movies for the overall progress of the industry.
	The main reason people prefer movies from other countries is the quality of the movie. It is often noticed that locally made films in many countries lack better plots and the characters do not have the necessary depth to touch the hearts of the audiences. Moreover, foreign films have a great variation and they are more enjoyable than the domestic films. This happens because large film industries like the Hollywood can allocate a huge budget and have talented producers and directors while films made in developing countries have a small amount to spend on a movie and do not have many talented movie makers. For instance, the type of animated movies and special effects developing countries produce these days are unimaginable in most of the developing countries and this is why movie lovers from these countries prefer to watch movies made in other countries. The poor quality of acting and low-budget filmmaking in most of the developing countries discourage the audiences to enjoy local films.
	In my opinion, the government should support the film industry in order to support this industry, encourage people to enjoy more domestically produced films and gain international acclimation for quality movies. Each country has some talented producers, actors and filmmakers who for the lack of financial and political support cannot bring out the best. They should be given a chance to prove themselves. No doubt big budget is required to make better quality films and the government should provide subsidiary to help local film industry progress. Government’s help for the movie industry would bring more audiences to the theatre to enjoy those films and earn more ticket money. Moreover, quality films would compete in international stages and bring fame for the country.
	In conclusion, the film industry in each country should be supported by the government as it would make local films popular and earn money and fame for the country.
Essay 506:
	It is a fact that in many countries, people prefer to watch foreign films rather than the local ones. There are various reasons that have caused the situation and the following essay will discuss them and how governments should react in details.
	For a number of reasons, a lot of people prefer to watch foreign movies than the locally produced ones. Firstly, they believe that overseas films have higher quality in terms of visual effects and audio. For instances, films such as Batman or Spiderman had been watched by people all over the world, due to their sophisticated digital effects. Secondly, many people choose to watch foreign films due to the poor quality of the local actors and actresses. They think that these local artists could not play their role in the maximum capacity which negatively impacts on the films' quality.
	There are some things that governments should do in order to improve the quality of the local film. Governments could give some scholarships for their best actors and actresses to study further about acting in foreign countries. And then, governments could play their role as a mediator between the local and overseas producers. They could cooperate in producing films, therefore local producers could learn how to generate high-quality films. It is believed that these things would give positive effects to the local film industry.
	In conclusion, instead of watching local films, many people choose to watch overseas ones. They believe that overseas films are better than local ones in all aspects. Governments should respond to the condition by sending their best actors and actresses to study acting overseas and by cooperating with foreign film producers. By doing these kinds of things it is hoped there will be improvements for local film industries.
Essay 507:
	It is true that foreign films are more popular in many countries than domestically produced films. There could be several reasons why this is the case, and I believe that governments should promote local film-making by subsidising the industry.
	There are various reasons why many people find foreign films more enjoyable than the films produced in their own countries. Firstly, the established film industries in certain countries have huge budgets for action, special effects and to shoot scenes in spectacular locations. Hollywood blockbusters like 'Avatar' or the James Bond films are examples of such productions, and their global appeal is undeniable. Another reason why these big-budget films are so successful is that they often star the most famous actors and actresses, and they are made by the most accomplished producers and directors. The poor quality, low-budget filmmaking in many countries suffers in comparison.
	In my view, governments should support local film industries financially. In every country, there may be talented amateur film-makers who just need to be given the opportunity to prove themselves. To compete with big-budget productions from overseas, these people need money to pay for film crews, actors and a host of other costs related to producing high-quality films. If governments did help with these costs, they would see an increase in employment in the film industry, income from film sales, and perhaps even a rise in tourist numbers. New Zealand, for example, has seen an increase in tourism related to the 'Lord of the Rings' films, which were partly funded by government subsidies.
	In conclusion, I believe that increased financial support could help to raise the quality of locally made films and allow them to compete with the foreign productions that currently dominate the market.
Essay 508:
	In many countries, foreign films such as Hollywood or Bollywood films are more popular than the locally produced ones.  And to cope with the problem, governments should provide financial support for domestic film producers. The following essay will discuss in details about the issue and how governments should resolve it.
	For a number of reasons, a lot of people choose to watch imported films than the domestic ones these days. Firstly, these people believe that quality of overseas actors is better than the locals. These people think that foreign actors could maximise their acting abilities and play their character well, therefore it would positively affect the quality of the film. Secondly, audio visual technologies that are used by the local producers are left behind than the overseas ones. It is undeniable that foreign films have used modern and high technology techniques, which have created unique and astonishing visual effects.
	To solve the issue, governments should have some strategies and action plans. One of the things that governments could do is to provide subsidies for the local film producers. The subsidy could be used by these movie makers for upgrading their tools and equipment, therefore they could improve the graphic and sound quality of the films. And then governments could provide scholarships for local actors to study acting overseas. By studying overseas, it is hoped these actors could learn from world class actors and improve their acting quality.
	In conclusion, many people choose to watch foreign movies than the domestic ones due to the overseas ones are better in term of acting and visual effect quality. However, there are several things that governments could do to solve the problem, and one of them is to provide financial support for local film producers and actors.
Essay 509:
	Film industry flourished dramatically over the last few years. Technological advancements have made a big contribution to the success of this industry. Countries such as India, USA etc. are highly dependent on this industry. Their governments are financially supporting to achieve better and long lasting result. They are in the process of sticking people to watch their own locally produced movies. However, with the easy access to foreign movies and because of low-quality local movies people nowadays prefer watching foreign movies more often. This has become a global phenomenon and both movie viewers and the government should patronise the growth of local movies according to many.
	There are several reasons for the shift in term of watching movies. Nowadays, people are smarter; they do not want to waste their time and money for an ordinary movie. They want quality movies, which have big casts, good camera works, emotions and suspense. In addition to this, they want something new and unique. This is why they are pursuing towards foreign films.
	Lack of funds is one of the vital reasons in competing with other movie industries. People are reluctant to work in local films because they have been paid very less. These people try to find their career in other countries because of high income and appreciation. The government should support their local film industry in order to equip with the latest technology such as cameras, software and training. The good work of celebrities should be acknowledged and awarded by the government, this will encourage good people to join and serve for this industry. The government should also restrict the piracy of movies and promote the local movies to help flourish the local movies.
	In conclusion, I would say that with mutual support of government and people will definitely help local film industry to grow immensely. This will later turn into a fruitful tree for our economy.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2027-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-893-paid-jobs-for-children-offer-valuable-work-experience",
Essay 510:
	In recent years, working children have become a trending issue in all parts of the world. People considering the issue separate into two sides whether it is totally wrong or it is needed for the children to improve their capabilities. This essay will try to elaborate these both views with appropriate considerations.
	On one hand, children are weaker in view aspects such as physically, mentally, psychologically, etc. that influence them suffering severe problems. They also lack the acknowledgements and experiences in workplace surrounded by job deadlines, congested responsibilities, and competitive working environment that cause further dire matters. Furthermore, they become an alibi and abuse by irresponsible people achieving numerous benefits and profits by using children to get pity in workload, and this happens in certain developing countries.
	On the other hand, children who work will more appreciate the life values and gain huge experiences. By receiving money from hard work, they will not spend it buying unimportant things. They will be mature faster and obtain more wisdom rather than other children who are naturally childish in that period. As a consequence, they will be more serious to pursue their future life throughout prior efforts.
	In my opinion, the benefits of childhood-age working outweigh the drawbacks. To overcome the negative sides, formal education should provide curricula with the practical and paid working programmes accompanied by parents and educators to gain maximum outcomes.
	To sum up, even though it is inevitable that there are risks for children to get involved in working environment, the positive sides deserve to be maximised by setting educational formula for children which also can minimise the drawbacks.
Essay 511:
	In recent days, it is quite common for some children join in some workplaces in several nations. Some assert that it poses bad impacts towards the children behaviour while the others believe that it is a remarkable chance to educate children to be a responsible person. This essay will look into both views with some considerations.
	People do realise that being a worker is not appropriate for children since they are still in the early age. People assert that they should enjoy their childhood first instead of participating in paid work. This is the time for them to play around together with their peers thus they will create some beautiful moments which are full of happiness in their age. In term of psychology, it develops them to be an introvert person and suffer from the social communication. They will tend to be mature earlier because they realise how hard life is. Therefore, they will lose their childhood which might never repeat again.
	On the other hand, there are some benefits for children to work on early age. First, it enables to be an independent person because they can earn money by their own.  Moreover, it educates them to be a responsible person because of their experiences. They will learn time management and problem-solving during working. As a result, they will be more ready to face this life even it poses a great help for them in the future since they have plenty of knowledge in that field.
	It is true that children will more respect and realise the meaning of this life since they already cope with some problems. However, it will affect their behaviour and culture identity. They will have different perspectives from their peers about this kind of life. Moreover, it will interfere their educations because of spending much time on working.
	To sum up, work for children can be a positive or negative thing, thus the role of parents and teachers are quite necessary to develop the children's character. As a result, children will not lose their childhood, but they are still able to gain an opportunity to work.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2017-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-892-nowadays-traffic-is-a-serious-problem-in-big-cities",
Essay 512:
	Traffic congestion is one of the most serious problems in big cities and it has made people’s lives more difficult. Thirty years ago, there were fewer cars on the street and people did not suffer from traffic. Today, however, streets are full of cars, buses and trucks. This essay will analyse the most important causes of traffic congestion and will explain the effects of it.
	Several factors have contributed to the problem of traffic in big cities. The most significant factor is the high number of cars. Today, companies manufacture a large number of cars and it is pretty easy for people to have one. Furthermore, many families own two or three cars which result in the increase of traffic congestion. Another contributing factor is the lack of public transports. For example, there are very few subway systems in my hometown, Tehran, and bus system is inconvenient and inefficient. Therefore, people use their own cars even in rush hours. The last cause is road system. Most of the streets in my city are narrow and few cars can pass through them simultaneously.
	The problem of traffic has several effects on people and city. The most significant effect is increased anger and frustration. Every day, people experience a delay in reaching their workplaces or universities. This leads to high tension and stress among them. Another feasible effect worth mentioning here is the environmental effect. The quality of air declines because of the exhaust fumes generated by cars which may result in severe health problems such as asthma, bronchitis and heart attacks. The waste of time on average is huge and this is another major drawback the bad traffic is causing.
	Overall, traffic is mainly caused by overpopulation and people’s reliance on their own cars. If governments provide more facilities and encourage people to use public transport, I am sure that the level of traffic will decline in the near future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2016-only-way-to-guarantee-getting-a-good-job-is-to-complete-a-course-of-university",
Essay 513:
	At recent years, there is an ongoing debate whether by completing further study in university or by joining the workload directly will lead someone to be employed in a good job. I personally believe that continuing higher study in a course at a university will alleviate the opportunity to get involved in the labour market.
	The light competitiveness in work field, in some ways, increases the need for qualified workers. Moved by this trigger, universities develop the quality of the students by improving the specialisations and by extending the variety of courses. Taken as an example, business courses have been expanding the field of study in a wide range of majors such as public health business which provides the participants to focus on hospital management, pharmacy business, etc. or social based entrepreneur which develops the candidates to build their social-based businesses by a small amount of money.
	On the other hand, undeniably, students in university seem to be the lack of practical experiences in working environment. Being an employee means more of responsibilities, job deadlines, etc. and there are several consequences if they show bad performances. To solve this case, internship programmes and core soft skill training can be effective ways out. University faces challenges to keep improving the curricula in order to prepare the students with work experiences by entering the utmost graduate students with 3 months working programmes in thrived companies as well as with several working skills training such as leadership training.
	To sum up, in spite of the growth of demand for universities' graduates in good offer jobs, it is inevitable that they have more positive sides to fit them in such enormous opportunities.
Essay 514:
	Nowadays, many people believe that education in university level is the only way to get a good job. In contrast, some people think that working after high school is better since they can obtain experience in work environment. I will outline both issues with reasons and examples.
	Talking about a good job, it is not easy to achieve. We have to prepare ourselves both in terms of education and skill because they need to cooperate to make a good capability in ourselves, which we know as a prior thing that employers seek in the employees. For example, in the case of a job interview, employer commonly ask about our last education whether it is appropriate for the job position or not. They believe that higher education provides people not only in knowledge term but also their maturity.
	Furthermore, through university education, we are not only given subsequences of theories but also practices. So, before we go to the work field, we already know how to adapt to our expected job based on our background education.
	It is true that we need experiences to do better in our job, but it cannot be denied that education is more important than it. Take a teacher’s career as an example. By teaching earlier, you may have more experience than the new one who just graduated from university. But graduated university students can teach their students with better theories or concept from each material with good methods.
	To sum up, I must say that we need higher education to gain more information from the experts about our special field, therefore we can do our best to show our capability in front of employers to emphasise them that we deserve that job. So, I tend to disagree that work after school is better than to continue our study at university.
Essay 515:
	In recent days, there are some people prefer to work directly after graduating from the secondary school instead of pursuing higher level education. They assert that they will obtain some experiences in the workplace, and it develops them to be an independent person. However, I personally disagree about this point because people need the university education to gain a bright future career. This essay will look into the reasons.
	To survive in the globalisation era, people need to have higher education. People who enter university education will be more ready to face the world competition. The university education tries to provide skills which are needed for some occupations. It is also supported by a wide knowledge that is obtained by students. They will more understand their study theoretically and practically. For instance, university tends to provide a variety of study fields which pose a great help for people to master their study. Moreover, they will be taught and guided by professional lecturer even some professors who expert in that study. Therefore, it will be full of useful for students.
	In addition, university education is the main requirement to gain a better job. It is proved by some companies which prefer to recruit those people who have an academic certificate of bachelor degree instead of secondary level. It is caused by the employers believe that university education already provides professional people. It is supported by the longer time of study thus the people are ready to involve in the workplace.
	It is true that it enables people to earn money and learn from their experiences for those who prefer to work directly. However, they lack the theoretical knowledge and cannot gain a good job as same as the higher level students. There will have more opportunities for those graduating from a university rather than that from the secondary level.
	To sum up, people should consider that university level education is able to develop the students as an expert person in the study and it can reduce the problems will be faced in the workplace.
Essay 516:
	The ultimate aim for some people continuing their study to university is to get an appropriate job after being a scholar. However, other people believe that it is better to start working after they graduate from senior high school in order to gain experience in the field of work. These views have become an inevitable issue in recent years. Through this essay, I want to argue that we are going to be more acceptable in a job market after completing the study in university.
	In general, there are two main reasons why I believe that a scholar can get a job easily. The first reason is that the university provides various kinds of lectures as well as use practical teaching in order to create skilled graduates. Moreover, the students in university are trained to be talented graduates that will make them easier to enter the job market.
	The second reason is that university tends to cooperate with company, state and private companies, to absorb the workers from the fresh graduates. In fact, some universities conduct annual job exhibition program in their campus as the opportunity for graduates entering the job market. In addition, some companies are invited to present their profiles in university freely. It also opens a wider opportunity for graduates.
	It is true that having more experience since senior high school is good, however, in recent years most of the companies tend to recruit at least a university graduate or scholar as their employers. In addition, even though there is an opportunity for senior high school graduates in a job market but they are probably put as the office boy or do not get a strategic position as the university graduates do.
	To sum up, the cooperation between university and company to conduct research or provide employment is such a valuable benefit for students in university to get a job easily and the lectures in university provide several skills for them.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2015-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-890-learning-a-foreign-language-offers-an-insight",
Essay 517:
	To be very honest, being a bilingual has an enormous positive impact on individual personality & confidence. As it gives you more and more global view of different cultures, at the same time one can relate things better in various geographies.
	On contrary to this, learning multiple languages, may not provide the relevant cultural aspect of the nation. For instance, I had learned English as a language subject in my school, apart from my native language "Hindi". In a broader aspect, it doesn't help me understand British culture at all and their mindset for others.
	However, to gain the cultural aspect, one should study their history & given a chance, live in the country to undergo their society thought process & thinking for others.
	To support this view, one may assume that, if you learn any language different from your native one, you knowingly/unknowingly go through the history and society needs of that country to make your learning of language easy to remember.
	At the same time, the thought of making is mandatory for everyone to learn one additional language is certainly a curriculum based need. It will definitely boost the analytical skills of students, as they think & learn in both languages. The best part is learning any other language, which is being widely used globally by people, will help you to work & live in the most part of the world. Like, I had learned English in my school & I can work & live in the most part of the world.
	To conclude, knowing multiple languages is an addition to your personality & work profile, but it does not give much insight of others society and viewpoint unless one study their history or live there for some time.
Essay 518:
	In primary school students actually get the chance to learn new and variety of subjects. Primary school is the best place for a student to learn any new skill or language because their mind can be moulded easily at that time. This new language will eventually become their second natural language like other natural activities like brushing their teeth or riding a bicycle.
	Speaking and understanding a foreign language not only helps in exchanging thoughts and ideas without any hassle but also helps in solving problems and fight global issues with ease. Let's say China has a global problem of high population and major unemployment. The USA is facing the problem of high manufacturing cost. They need people who can work for less money in manufacturing their goods like iPhone at low rates so that the US can earn more profit. To solve this issue if people of china can negotiate and comprehend in English they have bigger chance to solve their problem of unemployment and Secure the deal compared to people who don't speak & understand English. This Thing will not only help the US to earn more profits but will also help china to increase their GDP once the US invests in China.
	Studying and learning something a foreign language at an earlier age is the best time to learn and retain information for a longer period of Time. Skill in a foreign language not only helps people securing better job opportunities, global exposure and getting a perspective from people across the world but also help them bridge gaps in understanding their problems and providing solutions and vice versa.
Essay 519:
	It is true that by learning other country’s language, we could learn various types of new traditions and cultures. Therefore it is believed that the study of foreign language should become a compulsory course at all elementary schools. I personally agree with the statement as it would become a valuable asset for the children, and the following essay will discuss it in details.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2014-to-what-extent-will-migration-become-a-social-and-political-issue",
Essay 520:
	Immigration with the aim of achieving better lifestyle has become one of the most considerable discussions among developed countries, over recent decades. To clarify, this phenomenon has widely led to serious threats to hosts from a diversity of aspects which it is going to be evaluated in the following paragraphs.
	As the beginning impact of immigrants, it could be stated that the host government face a variety of population difficulties. By the way of illustration, it must be supplied a widespread accommodation for the new citizens, which costs a great deal of expenses for the government.
	The second problem stemming from this issue is that the immigrants from various countries have experienced different cultures, in contrast to developed countries. As a result, the cultural differences could cause minus effects on the host, especially on juveniles. These effects could contribute to decreasing the national motivation.
	As the last point, undoubtedly, the immigration issue is notified as one of the countries` major commitments in terms of the human rights. Therefore, the developed nations try to maintain their positive images in international communities. This could be evaluated in order to rate the countries in United Nations from the aspect of humanitarianism.
	In conclusion, the numerous challenges result from immigration of people living in developing countries, ranging from population control to the worldwide feedbacks from human right perspective. Despite these facts, many countries have still kept open their borders to immigrants.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2013-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-888-some-young-adults-want-independence-from-their-parents",
Essay 521:
	In today's world majority of young adults are looking for freedom and are try to live without parents, but some of them wish to stay long with their parents as much as they can. Personally, I believe that it is better for all concerned if young adults can continue living with their parents and families for a long time, particularly, till they finish their education or get married.
	First of all, after becoming an adult, it is best for everyone to head out to embrace our independence. Although it is the most important part to consider finance, because when young adults leave their parents, they face unexpected problems and they have to earn money for the cost of living. For instance, for foods, rent, utilities, and health and other insurance etc. Furthermore, if they are studying they should work hard and study to build their future rather than doing part time jobs that might hamper their education.
	In Advance, not only the finances but also they should consider the study potential. Whoever prefer to live with their parents and they believe without any pressure they can spend their youth with more freedom than the others. Because they do not worry about rent, food, work etc. Only they need to focus on their studies. Therefore, they get enough sleep as a benefit. In a competitive society, this is the hardest age to pass, for the reason that some young adults have only seen some external views of independent life. From my experiences in university life one of my friends lived in a share accommodation and had fun and party time in her whole university life, but at the end of the year she had to struggle with her studies and had to stay a long time in university to complete her studies. Until they get bad experiences from life some of them remain blind to see the real world.
	In conclusion, when I consider both arguments it is clear that if young adults live with their families they can get more benefits than the young who live a free life without families. In addition, those who lives with parents get well protection and parents’ guide to enter the right track to reach their life goals. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2010-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-887-societies-cannot-claim-to-have-achieved-gender-equality",
Essay 522:
	It is true that women in recent years have been given an equal opportunity as men to participate in some areas such as politics, education etc. They are given 3% quota in members of house representative in my country, Indonesia, and the numbers of women who enter the schools are getting higher and higher every year. However, there are some areas that societies still restrict the equality between men and women. I will discuss further this issue through the essay.
	Some people believe that the idea of gender equality has been approved through the policy of 30% quota in the political position, however, this kind of policy is unfair considering the number of women right now three times bigger than that of men. This policy is not representative enough.
	To sum up, the idea of gender equality should be upheld comprehensively in all sectors of life. It should be supported by government through balanced policy without discriminating such kind of gender.
Essay 523:
	In recent days, it is quite common for women to involve in several areas such as workplace and governmental institutions and this is totally different from the past decades. Some assert that it is easy for women to participate in some kinds of environment. However, some people believe that women cannot gain the gender equality because there is still injustice with the women position. I totally disagree with this viewpoint and this essay will look into the reasons.
	The first reason is that women have similar rights to men nowadays. There is no gap between men and women because they have equal accesses to contribute to society. As a fact that there are many women who involve in workplaces even some of them gain an important position such as an employer in certain company. It proves that women have a leadership capability as same as men. Moreover, people think that men are stronger than women thus they cannot take position equal to man. However, I personally believe that women already have the same capacity as men. Take military service as an example, women recently join in military such as police and army. Therefore, there is no reason to say that women cannot reach something like men do.
	In addition, women nowadays have freedom to express their opinions even becoming the agent of change. There are plenty of women as the representative of government such as being a politician even ministers or presidents. As the result, the power of women and men are similar to the government position.
	It is true that women sometimes are restricted to be a leader for some case such as being a decision maker in the family life. However, the involvement of women in some parts of society proves that they have an equal position and power in this world.
	In summary, it is not hard for women to obtain education and pursue their career nowadays. They even are able to be a great member of society. Therefore, both men and women are in the equality of gender because they have the same rights in this life.
Essay 524:
	The existence of women in major sections of the society has given big changes over the past 50 years in many societies across the world. However, these societies cannot state that they have obtained gender equality. I personally disagree with this statement based on several facts that happen in my country.
	In Indonesia, since the action that has been done by R. A. Kartini (an activist of gender equality many years ago), many people show appreciation to women due to what women can actually do for their country in general. As it seen for the past 15 years, the positions of women in politics are increasing. Indonesia's people have experienced  being led by a woman as their president, women as mayors in some cities and also many activists today are women. This shows that people have accepted and can claim that they already gained gender equality to a larger extent.
	Moreover, not only in politics and social actions that women made changes on but also in education and entrepreneurship. There are numbers of women who get into higher and higher level of education. We can see this phenomenon in schools or colleges where the percentages of female students are higher than male students. It contradicts the situation in the past in which only males could experience formal education. The number of women in charge also increases in entrepreneurship. There are many CEO or manager spread inside this country from small company to the biggest one.
	To sum up, it is true that there are still many violent happen against women, prostitution including underage women and also murder cases to women all over the world that indicating inequality of gender, but the percentage of women in politics and other aspects of society has proven that society has claimed the achievement of gender equality.
Essay 525:
Essay 526:
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2009-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-886-nowadays-many-people-work-part-or-full-time-from-home",
Essay 527:
	Technology has revolutionised the way human beings go about their daily life. This is evident from the fact that many people nowadays work from the comfort of their homes. Some argue that this practice brings with its myriad of benefits, while others refute this. Both sides of this debate will be analysed in this essay before a reasoned conclusion is reached.
	On the one hand, working from home can save an employer office rental costs to a great degree. For example, Sydney, Australia is one such place where the costs of renting an office space have risen to exorbitant levels in the past few decades. As a result, a large proportion of employers’ funds have to be devoted to this area, and this encumbers their ability to earn a decent profit. When looking at the discussion in this light, the merits of working from one’s home are clearly seen.
	On the other hand, many contend that drawbacks of working from home outweigh its benefits. For instance, a recent British study found that majority of the people working from home had trouble meeting deadlines that were set by their organisations. This habitual lateness can lead to failure to the achievement of organisational goals. Thus, it is obvious why many people do not support the notion of working from home.
	After pondering upon both sides of this argument, it is felt that working from home is much more of a positive development than negative. It is thus hoped that people and organisations will continue to reap the bounties of working from home into the foreseeable future.
Essay 528:
	These days, there are a lot of people who do their work from home; either it is a part-time or a full-time job. People have argued about it, as some of them believe that working from home has many advantages while others do not agree with it. The following essay will discuss in details about it, but in some circumstances, I would agree if working from home some benefits for employee and employers themselves.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2008-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-885-humans-must-employ-animals-to-satisfy-their-various-needs",
Essay 529:
	The animal right has been a controversial issue ever since the dawn of industrialisation. Some argue that animals deserve to be treated the same way as humans, while others contend that humans must employ animals to fulfil their numerous needs. Both points of views will be analysed in this essay before a reasoned conclusion is drawn.
	On the one hand, fair treatment of animals appears to be the moral thing to do. For example, animal rights activists groups have repeatedly performed studies that demonstrate that animals, when subjected to macabre conditions of slaughterhouses and laboratories, feel the pain in the same manner as human beings. Since most humans would never support the idea of inflicting such pain on their fellow human beings, it is only fair that animals should also be spared from this torment. When looking at this side of the argument, it is obvious why some support this stance.
	On the other hand, many people opine that animals should be exploited in order to fulfil a number of human needs including food and research activities. Take pharmaceutical industry, for example, if humans stop testing drugs on animals to ensure their safety for subsequent human use, fatal damage could be caused to human beings as a result of using unsafe medicines. As without such medicines, the life expectancy of humans can fall dramatically, it is understandable why this point of view has garnered support.
	Although both sides of this argument have indisputable virtues, it is felt that animal exploitation should only be upheld for medical research purposes. It is hoped, that animal sufferings in the laboratories will be minimised in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2007-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-884-internet-access-for-minors-can-be-dangerous",
Essay 530:
	There are arguments to suggest that online activities have detrimental effects for youngsters. Although some people are not convinced on this perspective, it can be argued that World Wide Web has a considerable number of repercussions that affect lives of children.
	Primarily, it is widely believed that there are lots of unsuitable materials that may appear on the computer screen. It might be the case that children would access pornographic websites, which can depict depraved insights in their behaviour. This behaviour can be shown to those teenagers who are highly exposed to pornographic film, thus their perceptions towards women become eccentric. To illustrate, a higher incidence of rape intent has attributed to some teenagers, and studies have shown that perverted films have a blatant relevance on the way they act in the society.
	In addition, it can never be denied that the innovation of the internet such as improvement in the communication system has made some youngsters to become preoccupied in a virtual socialisation. There is a school of thought that believes that teenagers, nowadays, do not partake in a face to face interaction because of the convenience that social media such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram can provide. In some occasions, teenagers might think that social media has very useful applications, which make conversations more interesting. For example, there is some social media that can delineate emoticons and video messages that appear to more entertaining to the young group. Furthermore, the sedentary nature of internet appears to have a great influence on their health. Not only does it restrict to an actual conversation, it also encourages some children to avoid engaging in recreational activities like exercise or sports.
	Admittedly, there are reasons to suggest that the internet has provided websites that display interactive lessons and updated information, which can make learning more boisterous. However, the consensus is that children cannot learn this without teachers, who can provide a detailed discussion and reliable response, to supervise them.
	To conclude, I would argue that online websites pose numerous disadvantages in their lives. It would be better if there is a parental guidance among children who are yet incognizant about the usage of internet.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2006-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-883-sports-facilities-have-very-little-effect-on-promoting-public-health",
Essay 531:
	These days, people argue that providing the facilities for physical activity is the best option to enhance their fitness but other side claims that it has very little impact and also different point of views should be outweighed considering public health status. In this essay, I will elaborate the topic into several discussions underneath.
	Nowadays, in their daily routine sedentary people is not include their working days and leisure time for physical activity. Because they tend to use all their time to focus on the important thing related to their job, family and the other. Lacking time and facilities could be the reason to alter their mood to conduct the sports session. But the condition not will be the same if several facilities are well-fulfilled in society. For example, the government can build the cheap access to a park so the people could easily reach them.
	However, to focus on sports interests is not universal. Some people are already adapt their lifestyle to exercise. So, promoting sports facilities would not greatly influence their behaviour. Because to do sports activity, someone should understand how to do in proper ways.
	As well as physical activity, high tax penalties could be imposed on high-fat food products, tobacco and alcohol. The reason is reliance on their daily habitual, to do so, could decrease the consumer. This obviously will lead to influences statistics level on public health.
	By way of conclusion, I think people should think differently and focus on sports. It is should be understood that governments should also encourage people from many aspects.
Essay 532:
	People have different ideas and opinions regarding public health care. Some of them think that opportunities for sports activities should be promoted to increase the health status of people, whereas others are of the opinion that it is a useless method and other ways should be needed for the optimal health.
	On the one hand, sports activities enhance the overall health of people as it improves blood circulation to all organs of human body and strengthens body muscles. Besides, these activities help to burn out fat and lipids considerably which is much more helpful to avoid coronary artery diseases forever. Next, mental well-being can also be achieved by doing regular sports exercises. It is proven that regular exercise keeps people fit and help them prevent many diseases.  But, in some places, the opportunities for sports activities are less and it should be encouraged owing to enormous benefits. For example, European countries provide great sports facilities for their citizens which would definitely increase productivity instead of recurrent diseases. From this regards, it the government invest on building more sports zone and parks, people would be naturally motivated to use those facilities and in the long run, the public health in a country would improve.
	On the other hand, there are others who contend that sports facilities do not help public to make better health status. Therefore, diet planning, mental relaxation techniques such as yoga, meditation and prayer, moderate physical exercises and attending health education classes should be followed as the best methods to avoid health problems. But, these measures should only be supervised by expert personnel in those fields. This method would reduce body fats and cholesterol to a greater extent, especially diet planning with the guidance of a dietitian. This group of please also believe that establishing new sports facilities would have little effect on public health as very few people would use those facilities regularly. They also argue that better healthcare centres should be established and more expert doctors should be enrolled to serve people instead of spending the budget on sports centres.
	By observing both sides of the argument, I think that sports facilities help prevent diseases and keep people fit. On the other hand, other methods should also be included for promoting public health. Hence the government should emphasise equally to establish sports facilities and promoting other ways of improving public health.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2005-which-transportation-you-think-has-changed-peoples-lives",
Essay 533:
	It is believed that the invention of airplanes has changed the way people travel these days. For a number of reasons, this mode of transportation has brought positive aspects in our lives, and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	Firstly, it is undeniable that with the existence of aeroplanes, people could travel to another country or continent in such a shorter time. With this advanced technology, people could save more time and be more productive. For instance, with the existence of Concorde supersonic airplanes, people could travel from London to New York in just several hours, and once they arrive at their destination point, they could do a lot of things there from sightseeing, shopping up to the business meeting.  
	Secondly, airplanes have positively affected the development of tourism sectors. Nowadays, there are a lot of low-cost airlines, such as Tiger Air, Value Air, Jet Star and AirAsia which sell their tickets at affordable rates. As a result, more people are doing travel activities these days, and they boost the tourism industries. More resorts and hotels are being built in the tourist destination places and it has created a lot of job opportunities for the local people. 
	In conclusion, it is a fact that airplanes play a significant role in people's live these days, as they bring a lot of benefits for many people. Some of the benefits of airplanes are that it could shorten the travelling time, therefore people could manage more of their time. And then, with the existence of airplanes, it has affected the tourism industry as it has created a lot of employment for the local people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2003-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-881-world-is-becoming-a-global-village-in-which-there-are-no-boundaries",
Essay 534:
	Some people believe that boundaries between countries become less evident each year due to the rapid development of globalisation. Although this trend has some drawbacks, I would agree that the benefits of globalisation outweigh the drawbacks.
	One the one hand, I believe that globalisation has many positive impacts on our life. Firstly, by globalisation business become increasingly international. Multinational companies tend to do more business across the world. So, they can produce products in some place and trade it in another. For example, McDonald's company opened many branches on every street across the world. Secondly, the globalisation offers more job opportunities to people in developing countries and encourage investment in it. By this, they fight poverty and low socioeconomic status. Finally, free trade between countries could strength the political relationships between countries and this may result in more peace and long friendship between them. Because of the free trade policy, many developing countries are now exporting goods to developed countries and that in terms of revenue generating is a huge sector. For instance, many Asian third world countries are generating their lion share of foreign currency reservation by exporting readymade garments. This has been possible only because of the globalisation.
	On the other hand, globalisation is not beneficial to everyone. One problem is that globalisation could lead to increase redundancy and job loss in developed countries. Companies can move to developing countries where labour is cheap. Also, this associated with poor working and low salaries in developing countries. Another drawback is that globalisation can lead to increase waste production and pollution. This affects the human health negatively.
	In conclusion, I would argue that the benefits of globalisation outweigh the negative impact. Also, there should be globalisation regulation for the salaries and the working environment and the government should impose laws to protect the environment from pollution.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/2002-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-880-why-is-music-important-for-many-people",
Essay 535:
	Many people believe that music plays an essential part in their life. For a number of reasons, some people think that music is important, and the following essay will explain them in details.
	Firstly, a lot of people believe that music has a positive effect on human's cognitive development. Based on some scientific researches, it is found that people who love music are more intelligent than those who do not like music. They could balance their emotional and logical thinking, therefore they could easily adapt to different kind of environments.
	Secondly, it is believed that music could also affect to people's performances. It is a fact that fast beat music could positively affect to athletes' performances, therefore these type of music are usually played during the training and the game session. And then it is true that slow instrument music could help people in releasing their stress, therefore they are always played in relaxation places such as in the reflexology, spa or massage centres.
	Lastly, some people are relying on music as their source of income. A lot of people do not realise that music industries have created a lot of job opportunities in societies. Some people of relying themselves on music as their main jobs, such as being a singer, music producer, songwriter and last but not least as a music teacher.
	In conclusion, it is true that music plays a vital role in our ways of life, as music can affect our mindset and emotions. And then music can also be used as a source of income as well, therefore, we must appreciate music and enjoy them.
Essay 536:
	Music plays an important role in human life. Reasons for listening to music and time of listening to music differ from person to person according to their lifestyle. I will elucidate the different effects of music on humans with examples in the following paragraphs.
	Music has the power to control the human mind. For instance, after a stressful day at work, I would like to listen to Sitar music by famous Indian musician Mr Madhavan and that would give me a quick relaxation. This is due to the fact that music waves propagate to the brain and stimulate the nerves of mind. There is one better example of a similar kind, my colleague Mr Govind likes to hear music at work by using headphones. According to his view, his brain works very sharp if he listens to music and he can finish work very quickly.  So, effects of music are fascinatingly different from person to person. In addition, there are a few more scenarios in which music is necessary.
	Music is intervened in many people lives such that they could not live without it. To illustrate such as my friend Mr Raghu, deeply habituated to listening music, in such a way, without it, he could not get sleep in bed and if the music stops, he wakes up immediately. Let us take the case of my elder brother, he works as a truck driver, continuously in driving for days and drives for thousands of kilometres. So, obviously, his job is monotonous and listening to music become compulsory for him.
	In summary, from the above examples, it is clear that people listen to music purposely, habitually and proves its importance in human's life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1998-television-has-brought-great-changes",
Essay 537:
	The way in which numerous children spend their free time has changed significantly through the advent of television. This change in activity, however, has had both a positive and negative effect on these children.
	Compared to past leisure activities, television has been beneficial for a child’s education and entertainment. Before the invention of television, children often listened to educational programmes on the radio. But unlike radio which is only audio, television is both audio and image. Children today not only listen to but can also watch programmes on television, such as a kindergarten teacher teaching the alphabet. The extra dimension of the image makes learning the alphabet simpler, and it is also easier to remember. Furthermore, in the past, young children often played with toys. However, many children found these toys dull and boring to play with. Young children today find television much more entertaining. They regularly watch cartoons after school. This helps them to relax and unwind.
	In contrast to those benefits, television has been harmful to a child’s physical and social development. Before television, which is an indoor sedentary activity, children played outdoors more frequently. Children of modern times spend less time outdoors and tend to sit in front of the television indoors for too long. As a result of this inactivity, there is an increasing amount of unfit and overweight children in the world. In addition, previously, children spent more time talking with their friends face-to-face. Television rather is a passive activity with no direct interaction. To make matters worse children of today often watch television in isolation. Consequently, many children have fewer friends through the poor social skills they have developed.
	In conclusion, television as a leisure activity for children has both benefits and drawbacks. Therefore, when children watch television, the programmes they should watch narrowing down to either educational or entertaining. However, they must balance the outdoor activities and engage with their friends.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1997-damage-to-the-environment-is-an-inevitable-consequence",
Essay 538:
	Many hold on to this view that today mankind’s way of life is surrounded by a wide range of advanced facilities and that exerts profound impacts on nature. I am of those individuals who strongly concur with this idea. In this essay, it is going to be assessed some effects resulting from modern lifestyle.
	As the main issue which could stem from developing urban life is that the communities increase the utilisation of natural resources ranging from oil and gas to forests and water, to improve social facilities in the mega cities. By the way of illustration, some governments devise the plans to ascend the urban areas by deforestation projects. The second considerable plight is the fact that the technologic equipment cause widespread environmental pollution all around the world, which undoubtedly, the health of human being could be brought about those pollutions. For example, in some big cities of the world, the air pollution caused by automobile's exhaust has been turned to the serious crisis.
	As the third stumbling block of the advanced way of life, it could be noticed that people have got used to spending their time working with novel devices ranging from computers to smartphones and also video games. The side effect of such habits could negatively affect the families` relationships. As a result, the member of families, especially the youngsters would feel lonely even if they live together.
	In conclusion, by all the reasons mentioned above, it undeniably seems that despite a variety of merits of developed lifestyle, human being suffers the difficulties organised from the modern changes. However, the adequate and integrated management could conduct the mankind to make the earth to a better place to live.
Essay 539:
	Many people believe that as the human standard of living gets better, it will have a negative effect on the environment. To a certain point, I would agree with the statement, but it really depends on the method that we choose to improve our lifestyle.
	It is a fact that some people choose to focus on improving the standard of living without any concern of their surrounding environment. As a consequence, many natural areas have been damaged and caused the extinction of some species. Moreover, cars, refrigerators, air-conditioners, room-heathers etc have improved the way we live our life on one hand and also caused environmental degradation on the other hand. Industrialisation, factories, large offices, luxury apartments, air travel etc are all part of our improved lifestyle but yet they have many negative consequences to our environment.
	On the other hand, the public could not generalise a statement that says "the improvement of the living standard will have a negative effect on the environment". It really depends on how the government of each country handle it, as some countries are proven that they could manage both aspects simultaneously. For instance, Canada is known as one of the advanced countries in the world, whereas the living standard of its people is better than many other countries. And the government keep on developing methods, policies and procedures to improve the people's living standard. However, Canada is also known as one of the greenest countries in the world, as the government is also concern about preserving the originality and biodiversity of its nature.
	In conclusion, to a certain extent, I would agree that the improvement of the living standard has affected negatively to the environment. But it happens in some countries, whereas the governments have weak and unmeasured regulations. There are some countries who could manage between improving the living standard and maintaining the environment, and their way of governing should be reviewed and followed by other countries to make the world a better place.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1996-people-who-are-being-monitored-are-unaware-of-that",
Essay 540:
	Technology makes life easy and viable. Gone are the days when people used to use jumbo style instruments to say, hear, view and watch. With the growing changes in technology, one can be tracked with his identity and actions known.
	In earlier days when people were contacted using telephones, faxes and telegrams. They used to be at one place and their whereabouts were tracked by the phone they respond. If we consider the recent trends in the technology; it has become feasible and transparent, the mobile phones which are used nowadays are backed up by a network which will be connected with the user of the phone.
	Their connectivity to the network provides access to a person’s mobility and actions, with the usage of mobile phone a person can be tracked and his whereabouts can be known. When we consider the security cameras; cameras installed at certain places provide the information regarding the mobility of persons, the cameras installed at various places not only helps in monitoring the traffic surveillance but also help in nabbing the culprits.
	If we consider the advantages of these technological developments they are beneficial in averting certain dangerous incidents, definitely the advantages of technology being used in tracking and identifying the suspicious activities are at par. For instance; the security cameras installed in different busy areas survey the movement of suspicious persons and with the help of these footages major calamities/dangerous situations can be averted. The conversation between persons if tapped will certainly help in identifying suspicious activities and saving the aftermath consequences which are danger in nature.
	As stated above, the use of technology certainly helps but this technology even steals privacy of people without their knowledge, for instance, the security cameras installed in a shopping complex or restaurant monitor the activities regularly without the knowledge of the people/visitors and this is being used improperly. Even the private conversations between people are tapped and are used for illegal means to gain some undue advantage. Certainly, the advantages outweigh the disadvantages but if the disadvantages are monitored and if the technology is practised ethically .The use of technology in monitoring and tracking certainly helps the peace and harmony of a state and country.
Essay 541:
	Technology has advanced beyond the basic needs of people and nowadays offers devices that can be used to track activities of people through mobile phones, CCTV cameras etc. Although the main idea behind making such devices is to ensure safety of the people and avert criminal acts, however, many incidents has been reported where in these devices was used to record activities of people without their knowledge. At the same time, as I would like to think, such misuse of technology in present times cannot still override the benefits derived from it.
	It is true that the number of cases reported on use of devices for infringement into people private without their consent has increased in the past few years. In reality, all such cases are due to wrong minds of the people who believe in exploiting others and won't hesitate to use any means to achieve their purpose. Such people can harm others even without the use of technology.
	Despite the disadvantageous use of technology by unreliable people, it cannot be denied that development of device for the use of monitoring people exercises has proved enormously beneficial in reducing cost spend on the guaranteeing security of individuals at public places , offices and remote areas. This spared measure of cash can further be utilized on other welfare prospects of individuals. . Additionally, with the utilization these gadget, the crime rate has reduced and it's easy of find the real culprit behind the crime. Besides, tracking through mobile phones made it difficult to abscond for the guilty.
	To sum up, technology does not promote the criminal acts, it's the unethical people who use it for wrong purposes and the unaccountable advantages of technology cannot be supersedes by such abuses.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1993-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-876-number-of-overweight-people-in-many-countries-is-increasing",
Essay 542:
	In recent days, there has been a significant increase in the number of overweight people and it has become a deadly disorder for people. The rising number of obesity reverses with the decreasing of healthy life and sports exercises in daily life. I personally assert that it is caused by having a bad eating habit and lack of time in relaxing body or doing exercises. This essay will elaborate ideas more with some solutions.
	People mostly spend their time in office dealing with so many workloads thus they have no time to go to a gym in order to keep fit their body. They begin the day since early morning until the midnight to run out with a variety of their projects. Therefore, the best solution to encounter this problem is by providing fitness centre in the work office that is accessible for every employee to do sports activities during the break time. Consequently, employees can keep their body fit.
	Another reason is having bad diet in which people prefer to eat junk food instead of the healthy food. It is hard for them to prepare their own meal while the deadline of work is waiting, thus an instant food remains as their choice. Even though they already know that fast food can deteriorate their health, but they keep on consuming as their meals. To tackle this problem, the employer must provide a cafeteria which serves much more nutrition foods accessed by each employee.
	To sum up, to avoid the obesity, a company should provide health access centre and a healthy cafeteria that would enable people to keep their body healthy and take on some sports activities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1992-today-people-have-unhealthy-diet-and-do-not-exercise",
Essay 543:
	Over the past few years, advancement in technology has made human life easy and more comfortable; however, it has made some detrimental impact on people's life such as they tend to eat unhealthy food and do little workouts.  In this essay, I will find out its reasons and try to draw some solutions to minimise its negative impacts on human's life.
	To begin with, the main reason for people's unhealthy lifestyle is too much workload in the office. This means they have to work for extra hours in the office and so they cannot spare enough time to make food for themselves at home; eventually, inadvertently they opt for fast food or other readymade package food for them because they are ready to make and tasty despite unhealthy. Another compelling reason is technological advancement which affects greatly to human's life. For example, a few years ago people tend to walk some distance to reach their office when they commute to their workplace and now almost everyone has a car and they do not have to walk. Additionally, home appliances such as advanced dishwasher, microwave oven, and so on have made physical work for a man unlike some years ago. Hence, their passive form of exercises has been increasingly reduced.
	There are few solutions to mitigate the situation. Firstly, individuals should be made known via health awareness programs by the government about benefits of healthy diet and the detrimental effect of junk food and ready-made package food. Moreover, the authority ought to emphasise on building more gyms at a nominal fee in each city so that more people take benefit of them. Secondly, the government should mandate physical education starting from the primary education and they should be graded with their examination with sports performance along with their academic so that pupils encouraged about their health from their childhood. Finally, the government should enforce stringent employment laws that help people to reduce their overtime work and make their work life balance.
	In Conclusion, people living unhealthy lifestyle owing to extra workload given by their employers and advances in technology. However, to kerb this situation, the government come forward for the society by providing education and awareness.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1990-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-874-school-should-prepare-students-for-university-rather-than-work",
Essay 544:
	School education is an important part of every individual’s life. It does create a base for everything else in the life ahead, in fact, whole learning capabilities depend on this. Some people opine that schools should prepare students for the university rather than jobs. However, I do assent with this opinion to a large extent.
	Opponents may argue that preparing for workplace right from school days can be beneficial for survival in today’s world of cut-throat competition. But, I would say is that it is too early stage to engage the little buds with some job oriented activities. They should be rather be occupied with learning the basics of various subjects or languages, which can assist them in further studies during the high school education. Take an example, learning alphabets then words and then sentences in school have a purpose behind this sequence. They curriculum have been designed the way it will be easy to grasp for students. 
	In addition to that, the fundamentals learnt at the school time succour the pupils to decide about the subjects or field they will like to pursue in universities and life ahead. At the school time, students are not capable enough to decide on what they want to do in their life in future, so it is hard to help them learn the particular skills that will be required. For example, different fields require different prowess like defence forces demand more discipline while government positions require more patience which can only be learnt later on after completing education.
	To recapitulate, I would say that school studies should be confined to learning basics which will help the disciples in university education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1989-the-average-life-expectancy-is-increasing-for-men-and-women",
Essay 545:
	Life expectancy has soared nowadays which means that people are living for more years than before, and credit for this surely goes to the advanced health care facilities available in the contemporary world.
	Yes, most people view it as an advantageous development, as we can expect our dear ones to be with us for more time. As only after retirement one usually gets much time to spend with oneself and family. Therefore, one has more years to rejoice what life has to offer. Moreover, old people in the organisations are the most knowledgeable people, who can help and guide the young employees to acquire proficiency in various skills. Take an example of a senior database administrator, who can only offer valuable information to the trainees who have just joined the company.
	On the contrary, this also has some subtle disadvantages. Not everyone is healthy enough to enjoy old age gracefully. Sometimes one gets so weak that he/she feels difficult to carry out even mundane tasks. But they have no other option than just passing their days somehow. Apart from that, governments are now burdened with providing old age provisions to more number of people than the past. Ultimately, it forces young people in the workforce to pay more taxes, to generate more money for these additional expenditures of management of the country. Being old and dependent is something which is increasing recently due to the increased life span.
	In crux, I would say that quantum jump in life expectancy has numerous constructive impacts. However, it does have given rise to some problems too for both individuals and society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1988-education-is-critical-element-of-the-prosperity-of-any-nation",
Essay 546:
	Education is surely one of the most crucial sectors of every nation. The prosperity of a country is directly proportional to the number of educated citizens. I assent to this affirmation to a great extent.
	Opponents may opine that the skills are necessary for developments, not the education as many of the famous personalities of the world like Albert Einstein, Thomas Edison, and Bill gates were among school and college dropouts. They brought big revolutions in their respective fields without any formal education.
	However, I would say that ratio of such people is very low. Therefore, we cannot underestimate the power of formal education. As it has become one of the mandatory conditions for even job applicants. Take an example MNCs engaged in software production, they are more likely to employ candidates who are degree holders rather than those who have the required skill but no evidence of their skills in terms of education.  Thus, firms only believe in educated youth to contribute in productive ways to the prosperity of their nation. Education is the basic needs for a skilled person and it is very unlike that without proper education a skilled generation would automatically build. There is a huge difference between an electric engineer who has a Masters degree from a reputed university and an electric technician who works in a shop. The former one is the type of people a nation needs for development while the later one helps people to complete their electric connections and repairing.
	Moreover, it has been observed that developed countries have a high literacy rate than the developing and under developed nations. This clearly bears the testimony of the fact that education is the reason behind their progress. So, educated populaces do affect the flourishing capabilities of the country .Therefore, it should be taken care of.
	In a compendium, I would say that education and prosperity of a country are closely correlated to each other.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1987-a-huge-number-of-students-choose-to-study-english-independently",
Essay 547:
	At recent years, the vast growth of technology relating to the internet, social media, etc. leads us to learn English easily because the contents are always useful for self-learning at home. However, teacher and class study are found to be beneficial in some ways to maximise the result of learning English. Throughout this essay, an intermediate position can be taken through some considerations given underneath.
	However, as human being commonly, most of the people seem to be inconsistent to deal with individual learning. They need accompanies from teachers and classmates not only to enrich knowledge in class progress but also to gain established goals together. By working for tasks, assignments, and presentations students will not have much free time to conduct wasteful activities motivation to attempt self-study hardly.
	It is a truth that most people feel convenient to learn in silent, but comfort, in some ways, causes laziness and as a result, people cannot accomplish the English learning. That is why teachers are always needed to be involved.
	To sum up, I believe that both ways of learning have benefits and drawbacks, therefore, combining them together, without superiority one over another, will be extraordinary relevant to learn English effectively.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1986-sport-today-is-turning-into-a-business",
Essay 548:
	Today it is quite common to see sporting events, teams and even individual players wearing logos on uniforms and appear in television advertising, which means commercialization has become a part of the modern game, with both positive and negative outcomes.  
	Advocates of sports sponsorship believe that commercialization enables players financially secured and maintains professional sports to be of high quality and great entertainment. If a major company sponsors an event, it is much more likely to get prime time television coverage, which means bringing in greater advertising revenues and exposing more people to the sport. This will bring in more fans, improve the profitability of local sports clubs, which in turn helps the local economy and revives community spirit when the team is performing well.  
	However, others claim that this has had some negative impacts as  commercialization has changed the attitude of the players and jeopardised the true spirit of the game. The players no more play for the thrill and love of the game but have been lured and entangled into the vicious web of match fixing. They have become commodities to be traded and sold for extravagant sums of money and even clubs are being sold to the highest bidders. This has hampered and defamed the spirit of the game.
	In my opinion, though there are scandals about players using performance-enhancing drugs, which should be discouraged ,these situations are under control. And it is not necessarily wrong for companies to sponsor sports with extraordinary prize money, which not only helps to promote players’ skills and ensure their livelihood but also creates high-quality sports events that generate economic growth as well as encourage people to get more exercise to keep healthy. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1985-importance-to-employing-people-with-social-skills-in-addition-to-good-qualifications",
Essay 549:
	In modern hypercompetitive labour force environment, employers are seeking for candidates with high capabilities to develop their companies, and under this circumstance, people with strong interpersonal skills are tending to be more favourable. However, good qualification still matters and it is also an indispensable factor.
	Traditionally, once an individual acquires a good qualification, he or she is most likely to get a stable and high paid job, however, this kind of standard is gradually no longer able to catch up the society with a high developing pace. Personal and social skills, such as being able to communicate and exercise self-control as well as being multi-functional and having the correct level of self-esteem, are becoming more important in determining earnings and job promotions. Because in today’s highly shifting economy, even capable people are less prone to work as individuals, they tend to beat their competitors as a team, which means individuals must smoothly cooperate with each other.
	However, good qualifications still matter and it has already been found that a top university degree is still more attractive than a normal one in the labour force market. This means good qualifications should be harnessed to build a stronger team to battle in the modern changing structure of business. A world-class group, for example, cannot have a lack of people with high qualifications as well, without them, it is less likely to build a firm foundation to compete with their rivals.  
	As a whole, it is true that lacking certain qualification may be a drawback for an individual. However, I believe this weakness can be easily made up by one’s excellent social skills as long as he is very good at motivating team members and uniting others’ strength to fulfil targets.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1983-zoos-are-sometimes-seen-as-necessary",
Essay 550:
	Zoos have been amusing and educating humans about animals for centuries. Although, containment of animals in zoos is an increasingly controversial topic. Some argue that confining animals to their cages in zoos are both necessary and healthy, while others refute this. Both sides of this debate will be analysed in this essay before a reasoned conclusion is drawn.
	On one hand, many believe that keeping animals inside the contrived environment of a zoo is a way to save many species from going extinct. For example, the Auckland Zoo has many breeding programs in place to enable animals to mate and reproduce. These animals might not be able to find mating partners in the wild and hence their species could be wiped out. This example makes it clear why many people support this stance.
	On the contrary, many argue that the practice of keeping animals in a zoo is harmful to these primates. For instance, a recent survey found out that animals in the zoo in Karachi, Pakistan, were fed toxic substances by the visitors which had an adverse effect on the health of many animals. As this example illustrates, animals in zoos can be abused if proper safety measures are not employed. Hence, it is obvious why this point of view has garnered support.
	After looking at both sides of this argument, it is felt that keeping animals in zoos begets greater benefits than disadvantages as long as there are precautionary measures in place to ensure the safety of these animals. It is hoped that zoos will continue to keep endangered species from going extinct.
Essay 551:
	Zoos are sometimes seen as necessary, but not a poor alternative to a natural environment. Discuss some of the arguments for and against keeping animals in zoos.
	Nothing is more barbaric than destroying the peace of someone's livelihood, poaching them and destroying their natural habitats. Humans from a very ancient time had close coordination with animals and other living creatures. They have been using them as pets, for cultivation and moreover, as food in many sorts. Thus, keeping animals in zoos can be considered both negative and positive considering a various perspective of the situations.
	Regarding the positive sides, climate change, like the wildfires and intensive cold weather, is causing disastrous effects in the lives of animals at an enormous rate. Millions of species are dead and many are in danger, and rescuing those species of endangered animals from such calamitous situations can be done with the help of an artificial ecosystem like the zoo. Moreover, zoos can be the place for researches and considered to be an area where our young generations could enjoy and learn about various rare species.
	On the contrary, considering the confinement and artificial ecosystem that animals have to adjust within a zoo, it is often discarded by the environmentalist as an unsafe place for animals and birds. Zoos often are just the place where men could see the animals and enjoy while small iron cages are applied to enclose the otherwise free animals and birds. Moreover, the authority often tries to cash out the animals and entertain the visitors which is cruel.
	Taking a look at the real purpose of the existence of zoo and various benefits that have been delivered to the animal kingdom, along with understanding the negative effects of zoos, it can be stated that zoos can sometimes be seen as required but, it is a rather bad alternative to a natural environment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1980-purpose-of-education-is-to-prepare-individuals-to-be-useful-to-society",
Essay 552:
	The nature of education is to humanise human, stated by Paolo Pereira. Some people believe that humanising human means that every person should be beneficial for society on how societies get the advantages from their knowledge and skills. However, others believe that they attend the education institutions for having skills and experience as the tools to enter job market easily. This essay aims to discuss both purposes as well as provide several reasons.
	People tend to focus on developing their social awareness through education in order to bring the society become a better community. They believe that the ultimate aim of education is that to contribute as well as to implement the knowledge and skills for the prosperity of society. For example, those who are expertise in agriculture science probably educate the farmers how to have a good quality of plants, how to manage the irrigation system well and how to conduct the product sales in the market. Moreover, graduates are believed as the social agents who bridge the society and government in terms of making society based policy. If there is a controversial policy that harms people, educated persons are probably asked by those people to help them conducting negotiation even against the policy.
	On the other hand, some believe that the ultimate aim of having an education is that people tend to get certain skills and experience as the main tools to achieve a good position in the job market. The company might require well-educated workers and put them in a strategic position which brings them to such more prosperous economic life condition. It is undeniable to stop people making education as the way to gain personal purpose because it is their personal rights. In addition, government guarantees every single person to have education for whatever the purpose as long as it is still on the education rules.
	In short, everyone has their own targets to entering schools, universities or colleges. The most important thing is how to save ourselves by having a permanent job while contributing ours kills for the prosperity of society.
Essay 553:
	In current years, the aim of pursuing higher education has been widely a fashionable trend. Some people believe that education lays on the aim of preparing individuals to serve the society. While some others assert that education conducts personal goal. Indeed, these issues emerges a fierce debate. As regards for this case, I will scrutinise both views along with related examples.
	To begin with, the idea that every living individual belongs to the more complex group is a very basic concept which shapes any aspect of human life including education. This further becomes a framework of education nurturing people in the sake of emerging positive impact to the broad communities. In this regards, as a part of the society, individuals are responsible for contributing their knowledge they have acquired. Subsequently, it is strongly assumed that knowledge without devotion is such a meaningless sense in any variant of ways. It is the sense of devotion which encourage individuals to achieve their education for the sake of benefiting others. Furthermore, the national government urges the schools to enrich the pupils with the sense of nationalism where the citizen has to put public necessity over personal need. A very good example is Indonesian Government requires schools to provide nationality subject in elementary and junior high schools.
	In contrast, obtaining individual ambition should remain as the purpose of education particularly in the modern age. As is it widely acknowledged that individualism becomes a major trend where people put aside social aspect. Undoubtedly, modern lifestyle propels people to seek their own desire of how their education should be aimed to. Moreover, the belief that people must fulfil their own need plays an essential role in this case. Finally, human rights tell us the freedom of everyone choice in focusing their own passion. For instance, people has legal rights to assert their purpose in acquiring education.
	To sum up, I personally think that preparing individuals to devote the society outweighs the other view in the term of education purpose.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1972-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-866-schools-should-spend-more-money-on-computers",
Essay 554:
	Perhaps no subject around the world causes as much controversy as education does. There has long been a positive attitude towards using computers at schools, nowadays. While there are persuasive arguments in favour of boosting teachers' wages, I would argue that computers are much more necessary.
	On the one hand, it is suggested that teachers play a vital role in education and society as a whole. To begin with, providing teachers with high wages is a top priority in schooling systems. Since they are paid well, they motivate to transfer lessons to students with a considerable amount of energy. Besides, what is quite indispensable in schools is the presence of teachers so as to having mutual interaction between them and students which leads to students' success. It is obvious that if teachers find their salary as high as possible, they will be more likely to enjoy teaching.
	On the other hand, I advocate the role of computers in education. Firstly, we are living in a modern world and due to this students need to be familiar with the benefits of using computers as a means of study. Thus it is worthwhile that budget is allocated to purchase them. These devices facilitate the way pupils learn their materials. In addition, from a psychological perspective, recently youngsters are unwilling to attend school. Therefore, the widespread use of the computers can act as a driving force to create pleasant school atmosphere.
	In conclusion, although teachers with a high salary are considered to be highly beneficial for the educational system, I believe that financial support for providing computers has far advantages. They alter the way knowledge are transferred and provide gratitude for pupils. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1971-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-865-usually-students-have-to-study-a-range-of-different-subjects",
Essay 555:
	It is true that students these days have to study many subjects compared to the past. At times it seems that there is no need to study subjects in which a child is not interested in but this lead to long term effects on the career of a student.
	To begin with, for the all-round development of a child basic knowledge of every subject is quite essential because being aware of only a few interested subjects will create certain problems in future. For instance, if we consider a student, who is allowed to learn only his/her interested subject then he/she cannot cope in other fields due to lack of information. To develop a perfect society, people with complete understanding are required then only they can handle the issue in adverse situations.
	Moreover, each and every subject has its own importance, we cannot deny this fact. Learning all the subjects from school days onwards will provide a student with more career opportunities. As we know the taste of a person changes as he/she grows up. Therefore if he/she is given a chance to select the interested subjects then sometimes it happens that he/ she can lose that interest after a certain age. This would lead to distress for a student.
	However, learning a few specific subjects have some benefits too. First, a student can develop a complete in-depth knowledge on certain subjects which helps them to work effectively in future when they start to do a job. In addition to this dealing with only a few subjects make a student stress free and keep him/her away from the burden of academic vast syllabus thus he/she can concentrate well in studies.
	Owing to the above reasons it may be beneficial for a student in few cases to learn specific subjects but I believe in this fast and competitive era knowledge of every subject is very important.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1970-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-864-nowadays-most-students-either-work-or-go-abroad",
Essay 556:
	In today's contemporary world, it has become a reverent activity of fetching a job or to fly overseas to be acquainted with the essential life skills before getting started with their higher education. Indeed, in this case, the students are deliberately let into a situation where in every time they are intrigued with the most required aspects for facing the real world through their experience. However, in another case, they are highly likely to get diverted from a regular study routine and take up a different path which is not careered prospective.
	Close examination shows that there are a variety of causes for this study break. Primary reason why students are driven towards work or travel abroad is that they are highly motivated to broaden their horizons. This is because they want themselves to be either equipped to handle challenging issues of  work environment like accomplishing tasks in spite of deadlines and poignant pressures or to explore  various cultures and people for the betterment of their future. Perhaps as significant as this is the fact that socialising with others has been a major life turning point. For instance, both while working and studying abroad, the persons influencing at that time may act as torch bearers by rendering helping hands not only by giving reference letter but also by showing the career path. This naturally leads them to be more distinctive when revealing their talents in the university.
	On the flip side, nevertheless, there is an upraised probability for a novice to get deviated from the strict timely bound studies and course path. There are two main reasons why this break in the studies deters educational progress. Perhaps the most significant of these is that they are entirely packed up with a different mundane and less likely get concentrated in studying further. Another connected reason is that the high pay, which they get on imprints of joyful moments about their travel, makes them less capable of analysing the prospects of getting further educated. This is because they have been earning money or handling more money during the course of breaks. In this way, even if they appear in the university, they are less likely to progress without being imbibed with the value of education.
	In a nutshell, though the study off seems to be beneficial by increasing the pragmatic cognizance of students, an insight to this scenario brings out the negative sides like distractions as well. So, to be honest, it depends on students to make maximum use of their acquaintance during the course of break and pursue a highly rewarding course.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1969-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-863-animal-husbandry-is-the-biggest-factor-causing-global-warming",
Essay 557:
	The biggest challenge that human beings face in this world is the global warming. This problem has been a concern of most scientists around the world since the temperature of the earth was seen having an increase which means that there is an unbalance in the earth air compositions. Animal husbandry is being judged as the biggest contributor to this issue due to the methane exhausted by ruminants. However, this, in my perspective, is not the truth but just a result of political necessity.
	Animal husbandry cannot be blamed as the biggest cause of global warming owing to some reasons. First of all, human beings cannot deny their requirements of essential proteins which are mostly obtained from animals such as cattle, goats, chickens, etc. Currently, beef, a product from cattle which is one type of ruminants, has been fulfilling the proteins demand worldwide because it is one of the most productive and reproductive animals with a quite short interval calving (being able to produce one calf per cow per year and achieving a slaughtering age of three to four years). Secondly, the methane produced by the animals is actually harmful to the world when the number of plants decreases dramatically and not be taken into account as a serious problem. It should be more trees planted and more reforestations done to balance the production of animals. Therefore, the collaboration between all sectors of agriculture is genuinely needed.
	On the other hand, numerous other factors are also considerably leading to an increasing amount of greenhouse gases such as Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. These are, for example, industries using petrol gases and an increasing number of fuel-based vehicles, which required by the need for the expanding human population around the globe.
	However, this is not as easy as it is thought. The more research is required to be conducted in order to measure to what extent this globe has experienced this frustrating problem and of course, how much the methane from animal husbandry contributed invites a more meticulous study to not casually conclude that it is the most horrible haunting factor.
	All in all, to stop the rise in greenhouse gases, an appropriate number of measures should be conducted. There is no need to just blame one crucial suspicious contributive sector without any actions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1968-eating-habit-and-lifestyle-of-children-are-different-from-previous-generations",
Essay 558:
	The globalisation era nowadays is changing children habit to compare with the previous era in the aspect of eating habit and lifestyle. Some people believe that the eating habit and lifestyle have negative effects on children's life especially their health and poor friendship. In my opinion, it is a fact that children eating habit and lifestyle have changed dramatically that has dangerous influences. The drawback of it will be presenting on this paper.
	First of all, eating habit will affect the children health. It is important to notice that the current children commonly find out the easiest and the fastest way to find the food. Many ways to acquire the food but one better and faster way is fast food or junk food, which is provided in every corner of a city such as hamburger, pizza, etc. It is important to become aware of that this kind of food is not containing nutrition. Meanwhile, in the young ages are better to consume nutrition food which useful for their brain. The drawback of eating fast food is getting obesity, which is becoming common illness of young people nowadays. 
	Moreover, children lifestyle also leads to lack of socialising with other people. More and more children nowadays spend time playing computer games in their bedroom which have beneficial outcomes to train their mind. In contrast, this habit has many disadvantages, for example, becoming addicted which lead to the lack of contact with their friends and also get sick because they never do exercises. Furthermore, the children should be able to manage time wisely between playing computer games and socialising with other people.
	In conclusion, it should be put in our attention that children activities nowadays are different to several years ago. Most today children’s habits are eating and playing computer games which affect their health, for example, obesity. The parents are responsible for helping their children to prevent them from any kinds of illness.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1967-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-861-internet-and-tv-have-a-greater-influence-over-people-s-lives-than-politicians",
Essay 559:
	There are modern investigations that have asserted that various forms of media such as World Wide Web and television have enormously affected individual’s perspectives. Although some might believe that government officials are more influential being in the society, it can be argued that broadcasted information in media generates bigger impact on their decisions.
	Primarily, government officials are those people who are more affluent and authoritative. They have wealth and power to manipulate people’s actions. There are some cases that people have been promised that the government will bring changes to the status of a country. Furthermore, elite lawmakers were also the one who propose legislations, which creates overall control of a society. As a result, citizens have left any choices but to oblige to the law.
	In contrast, there are also justifications that state that mass media has a higher influential contribution to the public. Firstly, the scope of information in multifarious forms of media is presumably broad. The information such as news, knowledge and updates are delivered instantly at people’s convenience. Secondly, these days, celebrities are now being used by media to advertise products, which are negligible among the crowd. Some arguments suggest that these successful people have the higher chance of persuasion because they are often being shown in various forms of media.
	In my opinion, I assert that mass media have changed people’s actions because of the diverse range of information it has. Indubitably, government officials have the prerogatives to undermine people because they hold the privilege to introduce legislations. However, some justifications state that people’s democratic rights can contradict the verdicts of the government in a form of appeal or revolution.
	To conclude, the influence of government leaders in a country is undeniable because of monetary advantages and bestowed powers, but the scope of messages in media and the collaboration of celebrities have a strong impact on people's lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1966-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-860-air-travel-has-brought-negative-impacts-to-the-environment",
Essay 560:
	Increased in flights has brought significant disadvantages in the earth's ecosystem. Although some people believe that mode of transport should be prohibited in the society, it can be argued that there are considerable benefits of retaining the number of flights.
	Primarily, there are limited numbers of transportation to travel to overseas destinations and one of which is the aeroplane. In the past, primitive people travelled through ships or boats, yet it used to take them a very long time to reach other nations. It is widely believed that travelling at the wind is the expeditious means of reaching different countries at the desired time, and through aeroplanes, time will not be a problem for those people who have business meetings and personal appointments. Furthermore, it is often said that because of convenience in transportation, it is most likely that globalisation will be established in the entire countries. For instance, some foreign investors can launch their business in a country that has cheap labour and market goods, thus it will develop the nexus of trade and industry.
	In addition, if air transport is banned some countries, it would be a hindrance for those people to experience the leisure in other countries with rewarding amenities. To illustrate, there are many people who want to experience the luxury in abroad, and it would cost them too much time if they opt to a sea-based journey.
	Admittedly, air based travel has become a culprit towards widespread of much fumes which contribute to global warming, yet there are justifications that believe that there are also other sources of pollution, such as CFC producing appliances, fossil fuel reliant vehicles and methods of waste disposal. Thus, aeroplanes should not be blamed for the deterioration of the environment.
	In conclusion, I firmly believe that aeroplane travel should not be banned because it has several advantages and opportunities intended for people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1965-cinema-will-eventually-lose-its-appeal-to-mass-people",
Essay 561:
	The beauty of the cinema to show films on a wide screen with good sound quality has amused people for centuries. Some critics argue that enthusiasm of people going to the silver screen is fading with time and might ultimately arrive at an end someday. I agree with the critics and feel that with advancements in technology, the trend of watching films in cinema may pass on soon.
	Recent headways in Technology has provided enormous choices to humans to invest time in like high technology smartphone, LED HD display TV,  Home theatre, Video games with excellent graphics and so on. Such humongous possibilities for entertainment have left little time to people to spend on watching movies at the cinema. Not just this, easily available and inexpensive DVD's and movie on the internet facilitates watching a movie anywhere, anytime and any number of times. With more and more such options heading up, the urge to watch a motion picture at the theatre has gone down further.
	Nevertheless, with advancements in technology, the cinema has evolved so much that almost all the action movies and animated films are shown with high-class 3D effects and clear sound quality to maintain the craze of people in watching the movie at theatres. Further, to draw more and more audiences, cinemas are giving discount offers on movie nowadays.  But still, the people visiting cinema are fewer in number as compared to earlier times.
	To sum up, with catching trends in technology, people are favouring electronic gadgets and DVD's more over cinema movies. Despite so many endeavours by the cinema owners to attract audiences, the numbers of people watching movies at the cinema are decreasing with time and may fade out soon.
Essay 562:
	In today’s modern world, watching movies has become one of the leisure activities for most people. However, there are a handful of people who assert that people will soon spend less time watching movies in the cinema which I disagree with.
	There are several factors why I do not think cinema will soon become an abundant place to visit in the near future. To begin, people in the twenty-first century prefer to go to cinema due to the reason that they want to spend their precious time with their family or friends so as to strengthen their relationships. It is one of the ways that people these days, especially the teenagers use to socialise with others. By watching a movie with friends in a cinema, they can exchange their thoughts and give comments about the movie that they watched with their friends which indirectly opening up an avenue for them to understand their peers better.  As a consequence, it is not uncommon to see most of the youngsters actually plan to go to a cinema during their gatherings nowadays.
	Furthermore, although there are numerous ways to download movies from the internet following the development of technology, most people still choose to go to the cinema because the sound equipment in cinema is more advanced. They like to immerse themselves in the movie as they think the story plot will be more thrilling and it can only be experienced in the cinema which is surrounded by excellent sound effects. According to the result of a recent research conducted in Columbia, most people find watching movies at home is rather boring and is not as interesting as in cinema. Thus, I believe there will not be fewer people to visit the theatre in the near future.
	In conclusion, I am not convinced by the argument that people will ultimately lose interest in going to the cinema as there is evidence which shows that there is an increasing trend in the number of visitors to the cinema. I believe that cinema will not be faded out, in return, it will continue to flourish in the decades to come.
Essay 563:
	Many believe that multiplex & cinema is on dying spree and eventually, the cinema will die his own death, due to shift in Technology, which has literally bring cinema at Home. I am sort of in opinion that, actual movie lovers will never forget big screen. May, the number will be on downward trend and in the business context, it will not be as profitable as in last few decades.
	Still, the charm of cinema is never going to die. As an individual, I always love to watch movies on the silver screen, the reason being is, fill joy of a movie can only be possible with theatre, no one is there to disturb & you can uninterruptedly enjoy or feel the story line. One always rates a movie better if he has seen it on a big screen.
	However,  another aspect is also somewhat true that cinema a is on the decline. Innovation and upscaling in Technology are the prime reasons, which make people think that the era of Silver Screen is bound to die. Technology has brought the big screen at home with better sound systems, big LED screens & most importantly the ease of watching at the comfort of home.
	On a high note for the big screen, the best part is, no one can watch latest flicks at home & this will make sure that people keep coming to the big screen for watching the latest work of their favourite stars.
	Summing up, favour for big screen may decline, in reality, it is never going to die in next decade or so.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1964-some-people-regard-video-games-as-harmless-fun",
Essay 564:
	People have argued about the function of video games. A group of people believe that these digital games are beneficial for mankind, but others think that they would be a distraction to human's mind. Although video games have some positive sides, I personally believe that they have more negative effects on our minds, and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	For a number of reasons, a lot of people believe that video games are entertaining and educative. It is believed that video games could help people in releasing their stress. Players could feel the excitement of being a heroic character or a professional athlete, without having the risk of being injured or hurt. And then, there are some video games which are considered as educative as well, as they are created to trigger people's imaginative thinking, such as Tetris or chess.
	Despite the positive side, people do not realise that the games have become a serious problem for individuals and societies. Firstly, many people got addicted to video games, and it has affected to their work or study performance. Many workers are losing their focus and productivities, and some students have poor performance on their studies due to spending a number of hours in playing video games. Secondly, some games have shown violence and sadistic scenes and affected to the gamers' mind. There have been several cases in America, whereas students have done violence acts to their classmates because they were influenced by the game. And lastly, video games have affected to residents' health condition as well. People who play video games have the tendency to consume light snacks and do less exercise. Consequently, they have a risk of getting obesity and diabetic problems.
	In conclusion, video games have its own positive and negative sides, but I do believe that video games have more drawbacks than its benefits.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1962-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-857-students-should-pay-the-full-cost-of-their-own-university-studies",
Essay 565:
	Free tertiary education has always sparks heated debates all over the world. I, personally, completely disagree that higher education cost should be born by students because that would prevent the waste of talent resource and also it is a form investment for the government in the long run.
	When higher education comes with a cost, it creates an inefficient allocation of the human resource. This is because when there is a financial constraint, some students from the less privileged background are forced to choose the courses that either is not too costly or have good employability prospects and not necessarily courses that the students want most or are best at. As a result, for example, instead of being an excellent artist, the student can only be a mediocre accountant because he cannot utilise all his potential in his chosen field, causing a waste of talent; free higher education can prevent this problem.
	The second reason why tertiary education should be free is because if the government chooses not to spend money on free education, they will see rising expenditures in other areas. For example, a less educated workforce bears a higher risk of unemployment in the economic downturn, and thus the government’s coffers for unemployment aid would need to increase. Furthermore, unskilled labour earns much less than college-educated people do, and thus they contribute less income tax i.e. less revenue for the government. Not to mention, the highly skilled population is essential to any country’s economic growth in the long run.
	In conclusion, because free education allows students to learn what they enjoy most and are best at, it can ensure better allocation of the human resource. Furthermore, free education can reduce unemployment cost in the economic downturn, increase government’s tax revenue, and increase economic growth in the long run. Thus, I completely disagree that students should pay for their higher education.
Essay 566:
	Education is a possession which makes a person stand tall and high. It adds to the overall physical personality of the person and makes him stand apart and outshines others who don’t possess it. Education is an eternal rock which never withers, not even during the wild waves of evil. It is only education which makes people bow in front of the educated and is one of the moral fabrics of any country which binds the whole society into one nation.
	It is due to this high pedestal which the education occupies that higher education must be provided by the State, albeit to those subjects of the state who are economically weak.
	There are, however, two schools of thought. One school of thought is of the view that the cost of higher studies should be borne by the students themselves. However, in such a scenario, all those meritorious students who are unable to continue their education for want of money (read economic resources) would be left with no option but to get themselves tagged as ‘drop outs’ by the society, due to no fault of theirs. ‘No student should be left deprived of education’ must be one of the objectives (read fundamental duty) of every Nation/State.
	On the other hand, a student who thrives for education must be wholeheartedly supported by the Nation/State. No stone must be left unturned to make available the most precious of the stones, i.e. the education, to the student. It is so because education is something which is dearer than the fine opals, more precious than emeralds!
	There’ve been quite a lot instances in the recent past, and even now, wherein the entire cost of higher studies of a student is sponsored by the State. The recent example which supports this is the educational sponsorship which was provided by the state government of ABC (a country) to the son of a widower who earns her livelihood by cleaning utensils at a roadside restaurant.
	It can thus be candidly concluded that education does elevate the horizon and encourages the mankind to labour at present for accruing enjoyment at a later stage in life. Consequently, the state must take responsibility, to a certain extent and for a certain set of individuals based on economic criteria to provide them with free higher education opportunities. This, in return, would only help the State/Nation to become independent and economically stable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1961-qualities-a-good-journalist-should-have",
Essay 567:
	It is undeniable that news media has been an indispensable part of our life, displaying a much colourful world in front of us than ever before. Thanks to the development of the news media technology and the profession of journalists, we no longer feel unfamiliar about the other side of the planet.
	While enjoying the wide knowledge brought by the reporters, we should also take this news with a pinch of salt as some information seems to be enticing but may not be based on the truth of the fact. As we all know, most news companies run to make profits, which is likely to make some journalists distort their reports to earn ratings. Meanwhile, many news media are controlled by some powerful institutes including the government, which would cause the journalists reporting tendentious news for they want to be in favour of the government rather than the public.
	Spreading knowledge of the world for the public but not propagandising for a certain powerful organisation is the main quality a journalist should have. He should at least possess the following qualities: First of all, he should be unbiased and not easily swayed by any party or group, reporting the news as factual as it is. Second, journalists need to report news of such various fields of society, science, geology, medicine, entertainment etc.; it would be tough for him to handle this job well if he is not versatile. Also, the most important personality of a journalist is that he must be brave and bold enough because there must be tough barriers waiting for him to break down.
	In conclusion, we should keep a clear head for the news reported by the journalists and a good journalist should possess a multifaceted personality.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1960-the-rich-people-are-becoming-richer-while-the-poor-is-growing-poorer",
Essay 568:
	The widening gap between the rich and the poor seems to be an increasingly bigger threat that the worldwide nations are facing in recent decades. And I think individuals, governments and powerful companies are all responsible for this.
	One of the primary causes of the accelerated growth of economic inequality is due to modern technological progress. In order to create the largest wealth by costing the least, employers are motivated to increasingly concentrate on non-human factors of production, including super-automation, robotics, digital computerised operations, machines, tools, etc., which to a large degree reduces the rate of labour employment as well payment.
	However, considering the fact that technology development will never cease to march forward, it brings about another vital factor - education and qualified working skills. Except for a very small group of lazy people, most in poverty have been working hard so badly, yet ending up with far less payment.
	Nevertheless, this can be significantly improved by getting them re-educated or trained, which means the government should carry out such constructive policies as increasing the minimum wage and more investment in education and training, to ensure poor group sharing equal opportunities of education and getting hired and paid. Meanwhile, powerful corporations should take responsibilities to reduce poverty, for example, by providing scholarships or creating more job opportunities for those in need.
	As for individuals, one should seize each opportunity to get themselves armed with modern working skills and keep updated with the latest technology.
	Anyway, this is now a social issue in general rather than a personal problem. Only with the strength of the whole society with efficient government will we see the chance to reduce the gap.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1958-is-the-use-of-animals-in-scientific-research-acceptable",
Essay 569:
	Nowadays more and more animals are used in the scientific research. Some people believe that it is unnecessary and unacceptable as the animals are also the beautiful creature of God while others think that these experiments are necessary to make human life easier and comfortable.
	According to some people, the scientific experiments on animals are totally unnecessary and irrelevant. They argue that there is a vast difference between the human body structure and the body of the animal. So the experiments done by scientists on animals are rarely effective. Also, they believe that the animals also have rights to live freely and naturally on the earth and we, as the humankind, do not have the power to treat them the way we want.
	On the other hand, most of the people have the view that these experiments on animals are necessary to make human life healthier and comfortable. Scientific researches have proved that some of the animals have a similar body structure that we have. So it is advisable and feasible to do experiments on animals first and perform some basic analysis and then start experiments on humans. This approach will cause less damage and cost for the research. Apart from this, it is really hard to find the human body for scientific experiments. So scientists do not have any other option because there are very few persons present in this world who are ready to make themselves available for these experiments. One of the best examples of this is the earlier space programs carried by NASA. In the first couple of attempts, they sent the space flight carrying dogs and evaluated the results and then decided to send the space rocket carrying humans.
	In conclusion, I prefer that the scientific experiments on animals are acceptable only if we do not have any other options available and also the government should implement rules and regulations to protect the identity of every animal used in such researches.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1957-how-can-education-be-improved-in-your-country",
Essay 570:
	Education is considered to be an essential factor in our lives. There are many ways by which education can be improved in my country. Chief among them are - the teachers’ continuous encouragement for students and the availability of interesting resources in the educational process.
	It is an indisputable fact that encouragement grants confidence.  In fact, most teachers pay no attention to this notion. In contrast, they must plant incentives in their students. For example, when a teacher encourages or praises a student for any positive thing, such student will feel comfortable and confident. Consequently, his learning appetite will dramatically increase which, in turn, will reflect his excellent performance in his study.
	Finally, the government should allocate more fund for the education sector as there are still many less developed educational institute in my country. The students should be encouraged by their parents and interactive ways of education should be available in most of the schools.
	To sum up, no one can ignore the importance of education. For this reason, there must be a constant encouragement for students and interesting methods for learning as well. Adopting the above ways will reap a generation of scientists of whom will shall take pride.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1956-computers-have-made-our-life-more-complex-and-stressful",
Essay 571:
	People have argued about the existence of computers. A group of people believe that computers are beneficial for human beings, while others think that computers have made their life become more difficult. I personally believe that computers are useful for people as long as they use them proportionately.  
	For a number of reasons, some people believe that computers have made their life become more complicated. Firstly, with the invention of portable computers, many companies are expecting their employees to bring home those notebooks. Many employees have felt that the condition has negatively affected to their social life. Secondly, with the innovation of internet technology, people are working at a faster pace nowadays. It is believed that this condition has increased the stress level of many employers.
	However, another group of people think differently, as they believe that computers have assisted them in many aspects of their lives. With the existence of office application software, employees could easily process thousands of data in just a couple of hours. And then, with the online technology, people could stay connected with their business partners, family and relatives who live far away from them without the boundary of cost. Lastly, the computer could also be used as a platform for entertainment, as they could be utilised for playing video games, watching videos and surfing the internet.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that people have different opinions about computers. Some people believe that computer has a lot of positive sides, while others think that it has more negative sides for the human being. From my point of view, it is true that computer has its own advantages and disadvantages, but I believe that if people use is wisely, the benefits of computers will outweigh the drawbacks.    
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1955-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-851-advancements-in-factory-farming-and-the-creation-of-new-combinations-of-fruits",
Essay 572:
	Technology is permeating every realm of human beings’ lives ever since its inception. This can be manifested in biotechnology used to bring about a new combination of fruits and vegetables, and in factory farming. Some argue these practice to be rewarding one, while others question the viability of these. Both points of views will be analysed in this essay before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	It is widely believed by some that the livestock is kept in unsanitary and macabre conditions in many of factory farming arrangement while the use of modern fertilizers causes irrecoverable damage to the environment. This was manifested by many documentaries that aired during the early 1990s, that went behind the scenes of such biotechnologically produced poultry and other edibles. For many people, this inhumane treatment of livestock is enough to keep them from consuming the factory farmed meat. Thus it is understandable, why some people are vocal critics of factory farming and other similar processes.
	On the other hand, some people avow, that factory farming is beneficial and for the common good of the mankind. Take, an isolated country like New Zealand, for example, for her the export of poultry produced from the poultry farms, is one of her main source of national revenue. If it wasn’t for these practices, New Zealand would probably be not as competitive as it is today. Hence, the merits of such practices are evident from this example.
	For reasons related to, fair treatment of animals, environmental footprints, and economic benefits derision, the topic of factory farming and similar processes is a contentious one. After musing upon both sides of this argument, it is felt that biotechnology will continue to be used, although the tormenting of livestock in such settings, should be admonished.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1954-telecommuting-refers-to-workers-doing-their-jobs-from-home",
Essay 573:
	Today, thanks to new technology in the cyber-space, some office employees are allowed to work from home. This system has led many companies to gain more benefits, and I think this method will become more popular in the future due to the introduction of more developed web systems and facing more transport problems.
	To begin with, in some companies, office staffs are permitted to work from home via telecommuting, which has been beneficial to both employers and employees. One advantage is that owners can save more money. Clearly, considering a specific room for two or more employees, expenditures can become higher than working from home because rental and utility bills can be decreased far considerably. For example, a computer software engineer can finish and send his project through the web at the end of the month; therefore, he can do his tasks from home, and lesser funds will be spent for him totally.
	Another benefit is that people can save their time. Obviously, travelling several hours a day, many employees have to spend their valuable time on traffic jams, while it is not necessary they commute between their home and workplace as they work from home. As a prime example, my brother, who is an electronic engineer, had to spend almost two hours daily between his home and workplace; however, as his employers accepted he to do his duty from home, he has saved more than ten hours a week, and his performance has improved fundamentally. As a result, not only this method can be more economical, but less time-consuming.
	Besides, I believe that telecommuting will become a more common system in the future. One reason behind it is that individuals will have a better access to a faster Internet. Undoubtedly, the Internet is an essential factor that assists employees to achieve their duties, so as the speed of Internet develops, huge works will be accomplished far easily from home, leading home jobs to become a commoner type of working. Furthermore, increasing traffic load, especially in sprawling cities, will encourage employers to give green light to this type of working.
	In conclusion, home jobs have had many important advantages to businesses and workers, not only in the matter of their expenses but time. From my point of view, advancement in the technology of Internet and aggravation of traffic problems will cause more employees to use this system of the job.
Essay 574:
Essay 575:
	Telecommuting has become a buzzword not only among IT professionals but also among the common folks. It brings about a sea of changes in the work culture of many business settings. Though some business firms are on the fence about this new concept, my two cents is that several positive innovations come about in the society by this new concept.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1953-crimes-and-atrocities-committed-by-the-youth-is-increasing-like-wildfire",
Essay 576:
	Undoubtedly, the rate of vandalism has grown far considerably in urban areas during last several decades. Youth are motivated to commit more variety of offences than before, and I believe that unemployment and overpopulation are two important reasons for that. Some influential solutions, considered by authorities, can reduce this rate.
	To begin with, it is true that the number of violators has fundamentally grown in many cities. The first reason behind it is that the figures for jobless people have dramatically risen. Clearly, due to the economic recession of 2008, the rate of unemployment sharply increased, especially in some countries which have had a more vulnerable economy. For example, in Iran, thousands of juveniles were fired because their employers were not able to afford their wages; therefore, this group had more trends to become those offenders damaging private or public premises. To revenge the government, they have tried many times to ruin natural habitat, like firing woods. Another reason is the increasing of the global population. To control criminals, more police force should be hired; however, in many cities, insufficient police officers have created an unsafe living condition than the past. As a result, offenders, especially the young who have more energy, have found better opportunities to cross the line and commit more violations.
	To address these issues, state authorities can implement some practical solutions to suppress the crime rate. One is that improving the economy. Having a better income and job positions, citizens, including juveniles, will be less interested in offences, like car robbery, shoplifting or even firing the wildlife. In addition, administrations should not only increase the number of police officers but have more practical solutions for controlling of overcrowding in cities. For instance, had the New York government followed this outline, the number of dangerous criminals would have significantly dropped.
	In conclusion, economy depression and increasing the density of people, especially in urban areas, have led the rate of violence to incline. To tackle them, I think it is better governments not only create a better economy condition for citizens but consider some important plans to decrease the birth rate in cities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1952-there-has-been-a-decline-in-the-quality-of-prize-winning-artwork",
Essay 577:
	The taste of people for artworks have changed to an extreme extent in this present age. As a direct result, many ordinary artworks are entitled as masterpieces while true pieces go unnoticed for the lack of evaluation amid thousands of cheap pieces. I completely agree with the statement for the following reasons.
	The number of art loving people has reduced significantly. With the passage of time, maintaining a decent life is difficult. So, people are busy in making a comfortable living. They hardly manage time to focus on artworks and are willing to hang the artworks on their wall or preserve them in their showcases instead of visiting them at galleries. Such activities have greatly reduced the value of real artworks.  
	Besides, the real artists are losing their interest to create some extraordinary pieces for wider reasons. Firstly, they are not appreciated. Additionally, the prices of raw materials are on the rise. So, the artists lose interest to create some ‘true’ pieces due to lack of art lovers’ admiration to them. In fact, people are no longer interested in art anymore for recreation. For instance, my next door neighbour is a painter. When inquired, preferring anonymity, he told that all types of artworks started declining after the Second World War. Though there had been some changes after the 1990s, the real artworks were lost amid the cheap pieces after that decade, he said. He also believes, a large number of artist gave up job considering the matters. In fact, he was true.
	Furthermore, the art galleries reduced in competition with local market artworks. The artworks meant for gallery exhibitions are confined to local markets within a cheaper price for home décor. Subsequently, the aesthetic arts are experiencing rainy days in the supremacy of ordinary pieces. So, the ordinary pieces turned dominating.
	To conclude, determining the true art and awarding those unique works is a task that should be done very carefully in order to appreciate the work or genius from ordinary works.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1951-imprisonment-is-one-of-the-most-effective-ways-of-punishing-wrong-doers",
Essay 578:
	‘Crime and punishment’ is rooted in the very fabric of our history and society. The rules that drive the society are meant to be obeyed and breaking them is considered as crimes and hence the society has made an arrangement to punish the offenders to maintain the peace among us. The modern concept of country is based on the primitive society people used to live in and every country has its own sets of laws for people to abide by. Many people consider prison, which was invented as part of our journey towards modernizations, as a proper place for the criminals while others opine that more severe punishment is a better alternative to maintaining the peace in a country.  I believe that prison is the most effective way of punishing wrong-doers.
	First of all, putting criminals in prisons for their violation of laws was not invented in a day. That came to our society with the pace of time and from the need of a way to punish the wrong-doers. Hence this is an already proven way to punish the criminals and introducing a more efficient way would not be that easy.
	Secondly, not all crimes and background of criminals are same and thus imprisonment for different time length is very much justified. For instance, someone who broke a law for the first time and a recurring offender should not be punished in the same way even though their nature or crimes is same. Here the imprisonment for various sentences could be an ideal punishment.
	Thirdly, capital punishment like death sentence is too inhuman and the goal of our judicial system and law is to reform the society not to kill the criminals. The prison as a punishment offers plenty of opportunities to the offenders to remorse and become good citizens. Thus considering the true purpose of our law and order, imprisonment is the best possible punishing arrangement. Some might argue that we should hang a killer instead of letting him live in the prison. But my point of view contradicts with them as I believe that killing a murderer would make us no less than a murderer. We would be guilty of the same crime he has committed. What punishment could be crueller that letting the criminal rot in a jail alone and remorse every single moment of his life thinking about the heinous act he has done?
	Finally, severe and cruel punishment systems were mostly invented by criminals themselves, especially during the wars. Following those methods to punish a wrongdoer is not justified at all. Our aim is to make the world a better place to live in while not showing mercy to the people who harm others or break the law and hence imprisonment is the best possible form of punishment in my view.
	To draw the conclusion, the imprisonment is the best way to punish the criminals while maintaining the peace in the society and letting the wrong-doers remorse and become a better person in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1950-modern-technology-plays-a-vital-role-in-preventing-and-solving-crimes",
Essay 579:
	The world will always develop with the time. However, the increasingly complicated problems faced by human beings have resulted in a huge number of crimes, which is crucially being all people’s concern. Regarding this, state-of-the-art technology has a fateful role in the effort to hinder and tackle any crimes haunt our societies.
	In today's globalised era, people are being more secured due largely to the more sophisticated technology through many ways. This is, for example, the existence of hidden cameras which have already been provided in almost every corner of the world. It will allow us to monitor people’s activity where those cameras are put. Moreover, more sensitive tools used to detect what people bring or put in their bag or belongings have been invented. This also can help us to reduce the possibility of terrorism in which terrorists usually do by bringing bombs put on their body and burst them in important places. Furthermore, the availability of satellites and other devices to detect where criminals are located also has a big contribution in reducing the crimes committed. Another example, digital, automatic lock systems have already been installed in vehicles such as cars and motorbikes in order to prevent them from thieves.
	Nonetheless, nowadays, as a result of the development of information and technology, another type of crime emerges. This includes crimes which are committed electronically, for example, deception conducted via email and websites or even activities of black hackers who often cause a great deal of loss in many corporation or countries. Therefore, measures are also conducted to solve this emerging problem such as good software to analyse any suspicious activities on the Internet which, in other words, by improving the cyber security.
	Having said that, it is also probable in the future will be some human brain detectors which will, fortunately, ease people to detect any band or negative willings or purposes of people.  Consequently, before commuting crimes, they will be detected or caught at first. However, this kind of technology is still being tried by experts.
	Although there are so many ways of preventing crimes including tools, devices, or systems utilised in this mission, this will never be successful without intervening the feelings of the criminals. For this reasons the most important thing is that those ways will eventually make people who are fond of doing crimes consider more or even make them recover, become educated and come back to the right way.
	All in all, the development of technology has a really great importance in minimising the number of criminals whether to ease people to recognise them or to make them think much more before deciding to do so. Therefore, it is really essential to develop more highly-sophisticated technology and invent more creative ways for the sake of reaching a peaceful world.   
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1949-overpopulation-is-increasing-at-an-irreversible-pace",
Essay 580:
	Many countries are facing density problem these days, as their residents' population have grown rapidly in the past few years. It is believed that the way to control this issue is by charging penalties for families who have more than one child. I personally disagree with the statement and the following essay will discuss it in details about it.
	For a number of reasons, charging penalties for birth control would not be an effective solution. Firstly, many countries have positive economic growth these days, which means that most of their residents' income has increased. As their income increase, it means that they could pay the respective penalties, and it would not solve the density problem. Secondly, with the implementation of penalties regulation, it will increase the abortion rate. Based on the historical data of country that has implemented the fine regulation such as China, the abortion rate is increasing significantly. Abortion is not just an inhuman act, but it would have a serious threat to the women themselves, such as tumour or cancer.
	There are other ways that could be considered for solving the overpopulation problem, besides charging some fines. They could educate their residents through television and radio programs, that it would be a serious threat for the future generation. They could inform that as the number of people in the earth increase, the demand for food and housing will automatically rise, which means that it would be a problem for the future descendants. And then, governments could also give campaigns about the usage of birth control tools for adults couples such as condoms or spiral. By using these kinds of approaches, it is hoped that population problem will gradually decrease.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that a lot of countries have overpopulation issue these days, and it is suggested that governments should charge some penalties for families who have more than one child. I do not agree with the suggestion, as there are other ways in which governments could consider such as giving campaign about birth controls.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1948-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-844-some-of-the-problems-over-reliance-on-cars-can-cause",
Essay 581:
	Nowadays, the usage of own means of transport is very common in the modern societies. It creates the problem of traffic congestion and pollution all over the world. However, the use of public transport is one of the possible solutions to deal with this issue.
	Firstly, overuse of private cars leads to traffic congestion. Every person has their own car, which means creating a lot of traffic. For instance, in metro cities, it is often seen that there is traffic jam more than an hour and people are blowing the horns, thus worsening the situation. Ultimately, all this cause frustration and stress for the people who cannot reach at their workplaces in due time. Moreover, the sound and environmental pollutions are increasing.
	Secondly, more motor vehicles mean more pollution. The harmful gases exhausted from the vehicle results in air pollution and leads to various health problems. For example respiratory diseases such as asthma, bronchitis and so on. Moreover, ozone layer depletion as a consequence of pollution can cause skin problems.
	The possible solution to these problems is to maximise the use of public transport. The government should aware the people to use public transport and put emphasis to legally control the private transportation. Furthermore, the use of public transport also saves the expenditure which we spend on buying own means of transportation.
	To conclude, traffic congestion and pollution are the arising problems of extensive use of private means of transportation. Nevertheless, the use of public transport is the one way to resolve the problems. Both Government and individual should come forward to tackle this issue and make their place better to live.
Essay 582:
	In today's modern world, the number of private cars is increasing tremendously following the development of technology.  It, inevitably, causes many unanticipated negative consequences on people's lives due to the overreliance on their cars even for a short distance journey. Therefore, it is important for us to establish the possible side effects on our lives and also the effective measures to cope with this problem.
	Admittedly, there are a number of unwanted negative impacts of overuse of private cars. To begin, the physical strength of people will decline over the years and it becomes more noticeable in the late adulthood. People nowadays are too dependent on their own vehicles which cause them to have limited time to exercise so as to maintain good health. Thus, it is not uncommon that many of them to fall in sick easily, especially the children who are vulnerable to diseases. Furthermore, with the increasing number of private cars, traffic problems may become more severe in big cities it may also cause air pollution. People have to spend more time while travelling from one place to another due to heavy traffic jam. In addition, air pollution may have side effects on people's health when they inhale the unfiltered exhaust gases from vehicles.
	Nevertheless, there are tonnes of ways which could prove useful and effective in curbing this problem. Firstly, city inhabitants should strive to reduce their dependency on cars. To illustrate, they can choose to brisk walk to the shops nearby whenever they need to buy groceries without driving. It is indirectly giving a valuable opportunity for them to exercise so as to rebuild their bodies and regain health. Besides, it is advisable for the government to promote car pool. It is proven to be one of the effective ways to solve this problem, not only it will reduce the traffic problems which they are now facing every day in a city, but also reduce the exposal of waste effluents from the cars. Sooner or later, they will be able to live healthily in the near future.
	In conclusion, there are several unanticipated problems that are caused by overreliance on private cars, however, there are numerous effective ways to tackle this problem. I believe the citizens of our nation will be free from the negative side effects of this problem one day provided every individual cooperates and practice the stated ways.
Essay 583:
	Usages of private vehicles as the main transportation media is rife and has grown abundantly among citizens. This reliance on private cars, somehow, can trigger several impacts, for instances, increasing traffic jam and elevating air pollution. These problems will be elaborated through the following paragraphs.
	Traffic jam is considered as the impact of an imbalanced capacity of roads towards the number of cars and other means of transportation. As vehicle and other commuter lines grow significantly, moreover, when people tend to use their personal cars which obviously increase the quantity of vehicle on road, the road cannot provide fair space to allow all cars running smoothly. As a result, people have to encounter the traffic jam.
	Despite traffic jam, air pollution also becomes classic problem of car growth. The higher the rate of cars operated, the higher the amount of residual fume produced by motor activities. This phenomenon can elevate the amount of CO2 in the air which contributes major pollutant in the air pollution and damage people’s health.
	In my point of view, one of the solutions dealing with this traffic issue is by increasing tax payment for private cars and motorcycle. Imposing high tax for private vehicle users will affect their judgment in using their cars as they have to spend extra money to run their own vehicles. Whitehorse city, for example, has managed to give higher tax for personal car users and as the fact, citizen there prefer using public buses than private cars due to less cost paid for public bus transport.
	All in all, reliance on private cars can improve traffic problems and pollution. Nevertheless, by implementing discretion of higher tax for personal car user, it can help coping with this problem.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1947-do-the-benefits-of-studying-abroad-outweigh-the-drawbacks",
Essay 584:
	Nowadays, more students choose to study abroad than ever before. While there are good benefits in studying in a foreign country, I believe that the drawbacks outweigh the positive impacts this trend has.
	On the one hand, there are many benefits of studying abroad. Firstly, overseas students become more independent by living alone in foreign country. For instance, they are responsible for cleaning, cooking, and paying bills. Secondly, moving to other countries can broaden students’ horizons. They get exposed to different cultures and customs and gain knowledge about them. Also, overseas students learn foreign languages to cope with the new culture they involved in. Finally, foreign institutions offer better courses for students .The qualification gained open the door to get better job opportunities with high salaries.
	On the other hand, I would argue that studying abroad has more negative impacts than the positive one. One problem is that it can affect students psychologically. Studying alone in an unfamiliar culture can lead to homesickness or even depression. Also, this different culture may lead to culture shock which may affect the student’s performance. Another drawback of studying overseas is that students can experience some problems with paperwork like visa permit and may struggle to find suitable accommodation and paying their bills. This may add more pressure on the students and interrupt their studying. Furthermore, the language barrier may exacerbate the situation. Studying in a foreign language is a difficult task to many students and if they failed to master the language and communication skill, this may lead to the isolation from the community and might cause a failure in studying.
	In conclusion, the drawback of studying abroad outweighs the benefit and this decision needs more assessment from the students.
Essay 585:
	It is true that the number of students who choose to study overseas has increased rapidly in the past few years. Studying in a foreign country has its own positive and negative sides, but I personally believe that it has more benefits for the students themselves.
	On the one hand, some believe that the choice of studying abroad have some disadvantages. One of the reasons is that studying overseas will cost more than studying in the home country. It is necessary for parents to spend more money on airplane tickets, accommodations, foods and clothes, besides tuition fees and uniforms. Another reason is that students might be unfamiliar and uncomfortable with the culture, environment and language of the new country. As a consequence, it might have a negative effect on their mental condition and academic performance. Adopting in a new environment often hampers the natural flow of study for many students and some students do not continue their study to earn money when they are abroad.
	On the other hand, another group of people think that studying in another country brings so many positive aspects for the students themselves.  Firstly, by studying in a new country, students will have a chance to learn new languages and new cultures. Secondly, students will learn about how to live independently, like cleaning their own rooms or doing the laundry by themselves. Thirdly, they could make new friends with people from other countries and get familiar with multicultural environments. Lastly, it is a fact that in certain countries, international graduate certificate gives additional values when the students search for jobs.
	In conclusion, it is undeniable that the preference of studying in a foreign country has its own benefits and drawbacks. Despite all the disadvantages, I believe that it has more advantages for the students themselves, therefore young people should be encouraged to study in a new country. Although some of them might have difficulties with the fees, but many international scholarships are offered these days.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1942-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-842-students-who-go-to-university-directly-from-school",
Essay 586:
	In today’s modern world, many students plan to go to university immediately after they finish school. However, some people assert that it would be more beneficial if they can go on a trip or start on working for a certain period of time before attending university courses. Therefore, it is important for us to establish the positive and negative impacts of this argument before we reach a reasonable conclusion.
	Undoubtedly, those who wish to widen their view by travelling or working will certainly have more experience and are more knowledgeable than others who go to university after they finish school. When they travel to other countries, they are being exposed to a new environment with different lifestyles, thus they will probably learn the cultures and traditions from the locals. They may be more open-minded and have higher adaptability than others. Besides, working may benefit them by opening up an avenue to allow them to meet a wide variety of new people every day. It is proven that they can, sooner or later, develop an excellent interpersonal skill which plays an indispensable role when they enter a university. By measuring the crucial social skill, they can interact with others more confidently.
	Nevertheless, there is always another side of a coin. Travelling abroad and working for a part-time job do have detrimental side effects. One of the major drawbacks is they may be graduated from university later than their friends of the same age due to the reason that they need to experience more from travelling and working which require them to spend one or two years, or even more time. According to a recent research conducted in Malaysia, human’s interpretation and learning ability deteriorate as we get older which clearly explains that our learning progress will be slowed down if we start our tertiary education late. As a consequence, they may fail to achieve their aspirations even though they have more life experience than others.
	In conclusion, I think every student has their own choice in dealing whether to start tertiary education after they finish school or to travel abroad or work for a short period so as to gain more experience before attending university. I believe they can achieve their set goals if they are willing to work hard regardless of experience and age barriers.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1940-excessive-use-of-mobile-phones-and-computers-badly-affects-teenagers",
Essay 587:
	It is true that the heavy use of computers and cell phones would have a negative impact on young people. However, I am not totally convinced that it would necessarily deter their writing and reading skills.
	On one hand, relying too much on computers and mobile phones would effect on teenagers not to become proficient in some basic skills. Since computers and mobile phones come with a word processor accompanied with spellchecker, teenager's handwriting will probably suffer. For instance, young people who excessively depend on computers or mobile phones may not be able to write a letter by hand. In addition, reading through computers and mobile phones do not encourage teenagers to read long stories or high volume research books. They do not develop a reading habit that enables them to broaden their knowledge. Furthermore reading long passages through these devices could be very harmful to their eyes.
	On the other hand, I believe that for some reasons, computers and cell phones would benefit young people's reading and writing abilities. Firstly, reading through computers and cell phones engage young people in learning and grasping knowledge. The ease of access to the information makes reading more interesting. For example, many of us stop reading a certain book because its introduction put him or her off continuing. While by surfing the Internet we can find the information that we interested on without a need to read the whole book. Secondly, using computers and mobile phones improve some writing skills, which are useful in future jobs such as word processors for making reports, power point program, making notes in telephone or even learn the meaning or the spelling of a word that we have never come across.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that depending too much on computers and cell phones would bring both benefits and drawbacks.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1939-to-improving-the-public-health-other-measures-should-be-taken",
Essay 588:
	In today's modern world, the cases of people who are facing health related problems are increasing dramatically. Hence, there are numerous people who assert that it is crucial for the government to increase the number of sports facilities in order to tackle this problem. However, some people are of the opinion that other effective ways are needed as sports facilities would have a minimum impact on their health. In this essay, we will examine both sides of the arguments before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	Undoubtedly, there is a direct link between the increase in the number of sports facilities and the public health. To begin, people are being offered a valuable opportunity to do more exercises. Nowadays, the sports facilities are too expensive and are not affordable by an individual with low income. Thus, the provided sports facilities will definitely give them a chance to keep fit without the need of spending a huge chunk of money to buy sports equipment. According to a recent research, the weight of a person will decline for about 5kg in 3 week time if they do exercise regularly, for example, 30 minutes a day. As a result, health-related problems like obesity and high blood pressure can be avoided.
	Nevertheless, in the twenty-first century, people focus solely on their works which cause them to have very limited time to do exercise. Thus, the increasing number of sports facilities may have little or no effect on their health as they do not access to them frequently. Other measures which could prove useful in curbing this health problem are, therefore, required. One of the effective measures is increasing the number of health care units which allows the city inhabitants to seek for guidance and to have a body checkup regularly. A study has shown that people these days are more rely on figures on their medical checkup reports to help them to maintain good health. For example, doctors will advise their patients to reduce the intake of glucose-rich food if they are diabetic patients. The following preventive measures are that government should organise more campaigns which promote the importance of having a healthy body. Once the public realises the negative impacts of health problems have in their lives, they may probably pick up the good habits to maintain good health.
	In conclusion, sports facilities are, admittedly, opening up an avenue for the public to do more exercises, however, I believe there are more useful preventive measures that can be taken to improve our health. Our nation will continue to prosper and flourish if every citizen owns a healthy body which allows them to contribute endlessly to the society.
Essay 589:
	In our modern society, the question how to improve public health has been widely discussed. A fair portion of people believes that increasing the number of sports facilities is the best way to improve public health, while others hold the opposite point of view. As for me, I believe that increasing number of sports facilities and medical care are both important to improve public health.
	First, more sports facilities, such as gym and football playground, can offer the great improvement of public health. Nowadays, we have more pressure from work, life and even relationship, so doing exercise becomes a good way to relax. For example, the gyms of Pure and California Fitness have already placed in many areas. The recently published data shows that, in HongKong, increasing number of businessmen prefer to go to the gym after work, which can definitely improve public health. Therefore, more and more sports facilities can improve public health.
	Second, people should pay more attention to medical care, which is another import way to improve public health. In my hometown, for instance, the government made a new policy in 2014, which was to encourage people, especially elderly people, to do the body check at least once a year. The government would pay the half fee for body check for all citizens. This policy makes more and more people can prevent serious disease in the early stage. Medical care set by our government improves public health efficiently. In this case, another perfect way is to pay more attention to medical care.
	In my opinion, it is impossible to say that there is only one way to improve public health. We should work both on increasing numbers of sports facilities and setting up more medical cares for public. Both of the ways can keep us healthy and away from getting bad diseases.
Essay 590:
	It is highly debated that whether more numbers of sports facilities is the most significant solution to improve public health or other practices are essential along with. Sports obviously help people to build strong body structure and peaceful state of mind, but it cannot independently increase the level of public health. However, both groups have strong points in their respective choice.
	Sports have been an important part of human life. Some people agree that it significantly make human health better on the ground that it makes people physically strong. Addition in sports facilities number is believed to attract more people to engage in athletic activities. People want to perform good sports and skills when they play any game, which promotes them to eat sufficient and supportive diets. This helps to maintain good public health. As increasing the number of sports facilities encourage more people to engage in such activities, and sports itself motivate human beings to take care of their health, addition in a number of sports is the best choice to maintain a good public health.
	In the other hand, most people believe additional measures are required for a significant positive change in public health in addition to more sports facilities number, for example, public awareness regarding balanced diet, environmental issues and proper daily life practices. It cannot be expected that the number of people engaging in sports will dramatically increase only because there are more numbers of such facilities. Motivating programmes should be applied to encourage people to make sports an essential part of their life. Also, proper diet plan and adopting natural agricultural process are important as well. Regarding mental health, meditation and travelling are required in addition to sports. For example, my friend significantly improved his health playing football along with proper diet plan and meditation.
	In conclusion, the increment in the number of sports facilities cannot independently improve public health.
Essay 591:
	Health and fitness of people are declining and it has become a focus issue recently. Some individuals argue that improving exercise facilities can be the best effort to increase community health. However, some others believe that sports facility only accounts the little effect on health and other actions should be made to develop health. This essay will discuss both these views through the following paragraphs.
	To begin with, lack of workout is believed as one of the risk factors of several illnesses since it is required to secrete energy and maintain cardiovascular health. Low participation of people in doing exercise can be influenced by a limited number of sports centre available. Thus, improving sports facilities can be a good alternative providing favourable and measurable workout equipment for individuals. Canada, for example, has successfully reduced the prevalence of hypertension in that country since a number of workout centres are ubiquitous and people have become more intense visiting sports club to do a regular workout.
	Despite workout, food intake also significantly determines public health. Several health issues are associated with poor diet consumption. Diabetic, for instance, becomes susceptible to people consuming fast-food mostly in their daily meal as it may improve the number of excessive glucose and trans-fat into the body. Hence, one of the solutions for this dietary problem is by reducing fast-food consumption and adopting a norm of organic food into daily account.
	Among other effective measures, the government should encourage people to use the bicycle and walk to reach their workplace. The office authorities should also encourage people to move whenever possible and should persuade them to work out during breaks.
	All in all, attracting people’s enthusiasm to exercise more often by increasing sports centre and changing diet habit from fast-food to organic one are necessary for elevating community health degree.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1938-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-839-the-continued-rise-in-the-world-s-population-is-the-greatest-problem",
Essay 592:
	In today’s modern world, the world’s population has risen continually until it has become the biggest problem faced by humanity. The essay will examine the reasons for this rise.
	Global population has increased considerably may be due to several causes. To begin, increased life expectancy in the twenty-first century allows people nowadays to live longer. A recent research has shown that people these days are more long-lived than people in the past. This may be mainly due to the advanced technology used in medical fields which are able to cure and prevent the diseases that are previously untreatable. On the other hand, people these days are more educated which allows them to secure a decent position in a company with a high paid. In other words, they have no financial problems and therefore able to have more children.
	In conclusion, the increase in the world’s population is caused by numerous factors and I strongly agree that it is the biggest problem we are facing now. However, I believe there are a handful of possible measures which the governments can take to tackle this problem and mitigate against the possible negative impacts on our lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1935-television-has-changed-the-quality-of-life-for-the-ordinary-person",
Essay 593:
	Technology has been fascinating the mankind for decades now. Television is such marvels of modern technology. It is agreed that television has changed the quality of life of an ordinary person. This will be proved by looking at television’s ability to, alleviate boredom, and empower people.
	To begin, television has provided humans with a viable past time without even leaving the comfort of their homes. For instance, instead of going through the hassle of getting to a movie theatre, a person can simply order a pay per view movie of their own choice by merely dialling few digits from their telephone. This luxury was not available to our ancestors, who didn’t have the blessing of television bestowed upon them and as a result had to endure a painstaking amount of boredom in their spare time. Thus, with television, the life quality of an ordinary person has made a quantum leap.
	Furthermore, since the inception of television, informative programs have been empowering ordinary people to take actions which have the potential to change the course of their lives. For instance, it was through one such television program, that I came to know about the power of a human’s subconscious mind, which ultimately helped me to, admonish all limiting beliefs that I had about my abilities, and lead a much happier and  fulfilling life. Because these kinds of television programs are dime a dozen in today’s world, enriching one’s life is not as hard as it used to be. This makes it clear, that television indeed has enhanced the quality of an ordinary individual.
	Following the analysis of television’s capability to disseminate knowledge and provision of pleasure, it is manifested that with the help of television, an ordinary person’s life has taken a drastic turn for the better. It is expected that people will continue to bear fruits of this technological masterpiece.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1934-parents-are-still-our-best-teachers-in-our-life",
Essay 594:
	It is obvious that parents play a huge role in children's lives. Generally, most of the children start their lives with their parents and thus learning basic things from them. It is our father and mother who teach us how to communicate with others, how to speak and how to behave. I believe that parents influence the future of children in so many ways.
	First of all, we not only receive physical traits from our parents but also we get their habits and manners. Sometimes, we do not even realise that we are copying the behaviours of our parents. For example, my mother has brought me up to value the time. She told me to get on time to school and to submit the homework in a timely manner. She also encouraged me to prepare in advance. She showed a good example to me. She prepared everything beforehand and she has never been late to her work or any social events. She was praised by families and friends for being punctual and I wanted to be like her. Examples set by parents shape the way their children are.
	In addition, parents are the one whom the children spent most of their time with. Numerous studies have proven that the young age, between the ages of three to five, when children start learning is an important period. At the early age, children tend to learn and memorise what parents do and they accept it as the right thing to do in their lives as well. For instance, the first words of the toddler who has to live with the parents who usually swear will be the abusive words. The children who have to live the smoking parents are more likely to smoke at teenage.
	To conclude, the parents are the driving force and steer the children's lives. Parents are the most responsible persons of what a child would grow up to be.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1933-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-836-what-are-the-effects-on-employees-of-working-from-home",
Essay 595:
	It is a fact that many employees insist their employees to work from home these days and this is due to the fact that advancement in technology has made is possible for many employees, especially related to IT and communication sectors, to work from anyplace. The work culture has been drastically changed from last decades. People can work from any avenue and at any time. Let’s discuss the effects on this trend in detail.
	Firstly, the advancement of technology has made it possible for most of the people to work from different parts of the globe. An unavoidable fact is that the percentage of people working from home has been drastically increased in recent days. These factors affect positively for collaborating the resources all the time. Moreover, the efforts of work will not be diversified due to lack of resource availability. The most important feature of advancement in technology is collaboration, this is seen as one way of collaboration the resources.
	In addition to the above fact, the people can easily attend meetings and respond to the calls or assist team members, if any major issue's encountered in the system. Most likely, people tend to work more productively without the intervention of human or environmental barriers. In fact, the workload can be planned properly and can report to the respective teams for the deliverable. Nowadays people cannot relax as the fact they work from home, it can trace easily by many advanced tools which track the status of people's availability. The most observed fact is that many women can utilise their talent and skill in workplaces as the work from home allows them to work in a company.
	Perhaps the negative aspects of the above work culture should also be considered. There is a famous saying "for every action there will be an equal and opposite reaction". All the above facts are only applicable if the employee works and utilises the timely effort in a reasonable way. People working from home could easily divert their concentration on other things. Most often individual can involve in implementing own or personal stuff than official work. The deliverable can affect if an individual is non-responsive. Some technical issues can encounter like networking, connectivity to the workstation and the slow responsiveness.
	In conclusion, the work culture has been scaled to the flexibility of each individual, if the facility is utilised in a correct way, the outcome will be more effective to individual and to the organisation. Perhaps if there is any deviation then the productivity will be lowered. It depends on the fact of each individual's ethics and the responsibility. This culture is useful in various ways, the percentage of working people has increased and many women genders are able to contribute to the society.
Essay 596:
	As the development of technology, working from home is not uncommon phenomenon nowadays. It is a trend of future working mode with both positive and negative effects.
	From the positive perspective, it does benefit to the work-life balance. For example, employees do not have to spend their time on shuttling between their office and home. The saved time can be spent on their work or taking care of their families. Therefore, the pressure of their work and personal life can be alleviated to a certain extent. Another advantage is the flexible working hour which is conducive to staff's efficiency. It is more reasonable to arrange different kinds of work on different time section. Furthermore, conducting meetings with the customer from different time zone has become more realistic by this practice.
	Form the negative perspective, the staff management is a big challenge to many companies. As staff remote to work from home, their managers cannot monitor what they are doing during the working hours. It would cause the lack of effective control and management to their staff. It would greatly impact on the normal run of a company and it is a great waste of human resource which is the last result employers would like to see. However, this concern can be address by utilising some technology or measures. For instance, the company can install the monitoring software in their staff's laptop to oversee working situations, such as, what software they use and which websites they are browsing during working hours. Furthermore, the strict management measure is a key too. Managers should conduct an effective communication with their staff and estimate the appropriate volume of work for the staff so as to ensure they are reasonably occupied by their work.
	To sum up, working from home is good for work-life balance and the work efficiency. Nevertheless, it is necessary for employers to take effective measures to ensure employees to be under a good management, such as, installing monitoring software and assigning the reasonable volume of work to their staff.
	An increasing number of people work from home these days and stay in touch with their office using computer technology.
	What are the effects on employees of working from home?
	In today’s modern world, the computer technology is being developed at a fast pace which opens up an avenue for people to work at their own homes and communicate with employers and other employees via video conferences. Thus, it is important for us to establish the possible impacts on the employees who work at home.
	There are several advantages of working at home instead of working in an office. To begin, the employees will have more flexible times to decide when to start working. For example, they can choose their working time which starts from 9.30am to 6pm, or they can also choose to extend their working time with some breaks in between. In fact, it should be made more common by providing people around the globe for working at home as the employees do not need to commute to work every day which normally takes a long time to reach their workplace from their home. The time they spend on commuting is more valuable if the employees can use it on working. Undoubtedly, it will not cause any harm to the company, but help to increase the work efficiency.
	The next benefit of it is that housewives can get an opportunity to work even though they have to stay at home all day long. Most women tend to sacrifice to quit their current job after they get married as they believe that they need to stay at home to manage all the households well in order to be a responsible housewife. Thus, it is apparent that if most of the company provide jobs to work at home, the housewives will be able to continue to contribute to the society and earn more money to support their family financially. According to the statistic of a recent research conducted in Malaysia, it has shown that more than half of the married women wish to work at home owing to the fact that they can take care of their children and work simultaneously. Therefore, it has clearly shown that working at home provide the housewives with an opportunity to contribute to the society.
	Nevertheless, there is always another side of a coin. It is believed that working at home rather than in the workplace will eventually weaken the ability of an employee to socialise. If the employees were to work at home, they will probably have not much time to interact with others as they focus solely on their works. Even though some people might say that they utilise the convenience of the internet to socialise with others through the social media like Facebook and Twitter, it is proven, however, proven that the way people socialise online is totally different from interacting face-to-face. As a result, it may cause the people these days who work at home without interacting with others face-to-face to develop relationship crisis as they are not equipped with the crucial interpersonal skills.
	In conclusion, there are both positive and negative impacts of working at home on the employees it is, however, believed that every employee can contribute endlessly to our nation regardless of where they work and our nation will continue to prosper and flourish in the years to come.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1931-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-835-advertisements-targeting-children-may-have-negative-effects",
Essay 597:
	Ever since the liberalisation of media, advertisements have been its primary source of revenue. Children, who are in their formative years, are more likely to be influenced by advertisements than their elder counterparts, are regularly targeted by the marketers. It is agreed that this has negative effects on children, thus, shall be banned. This will be proven by looking at how, these advertisements can ultimately make children defiant, and play a part in distracting children from academic activities.
	To begin, when children are exposed to advertisements of products that their parents can’t afford to provide for them, children often resort to defying both, their parents, and society. For instance, it is a known fact that most children, who go on to become rebels, had been deprived of their wishes for items that they don’t even need, nor can afford, such as elegant toys and expensive mobile phones. This shows that advertisements of certain kinds of products can lead children to develop delinquent tendencies. Hence, promotional material that targets children has more than its fair share of disadvantages.
	In addition to this, a large number of the flashy advertisements can subconsciously have a detrimental effect on a child’s academics.  For instance, after being barraged by an endless amount of advertisements in a short span of time, juveniles can lose their ability to focus on a certain task for an extended period of time. Thus being exposed to such advertisements can take its toll on a child’s brain. After analysing this, the demerits of advertisements targeting children are manifested.
	Following this look at how advertisements aimed at children can, undermine their behaviour, and hinder the achievement of their academic objectives, it is evident that these advertisements have adverse effects on children. Thus it is hoped that governments should muse upon banning of such advertisements.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1930-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-834-why-are-groups-or-organizations-important-to-people",
Essay 598:
	To begin with, it is true that people have different professions. Some people decide to be an entrepreneur, while others prefer to work in an institution or an organization. As for those who choose to be a professional worker, the existence of corporations or companies is an essential part of their lives. They are relying on their employer for the income, benefit and facilities, and they also believe that their workplace is the place where they could develop their skill and talent. Besides that, the workplace can also be used as the place for interaction, communication and socialization as well.
	From the humanity's point of view, many people believe that the existence of a non-profit organization is important. There are various kinds of non-profit foundations and institutions such as World Health Organization, World Wide Fund, Salvation Army or UNICEF. These organizations are helping mankind who live in poverty, threats of war or those who are facing natural disasters such as tsunami or earthquake. And the existence of these organizations has saved tens of millions of people all over the world, as they supply food, clothing and medical supplies. It is obvious that their existences are vital for the struggle and survival of some people.
	In conclusion, it is believed that organizations or groups play an important part for some people's live. Some people who become professional workers think that the existence of their company is crucial for them, as they are financially dependent on their company. While from the social perspective, it can be seen that many people who live in poor condition or suffer from wars still depend on non-profit organizations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1928-the-rate-of-unemployment-in-some-countries-is-high",
Essay 599:
	As the world’s population grows so does the unemployment rates in most countries. This leads many people to avow that education beyond primary school level is not needed. It is disagreed that education beyond primary school level is no longer needed, no matter how high or low the unemployment rates get. This will be proven by looking at the sophistication that higher education brings with it and how education helps to differentiate between the more productive and less productive people.
	To begin, the merits of education beyond primary school level are not limited to the technical knowledge gained from the studies, they extend to the courtesies and etiquettes learned by students as they get more mature through education. For instance, it is no secret that bullying amongst children is highest up until high school, it starts to diminish from thereon as students become more in-tune to the wrongs and rights. If youngsters, start to drop out of school after primary level, those bullies, could go on to become juvenile delinquents. After analysing this, it is clear that education beyond primary level is indeed fruitful for the society at large.
	Furthermore, in absence of education, it would be harder for prospective employers to choose between more competent and less competent people. A scenario where all job applicants for a particular job are primary school level qualified, employers would be hard pressed to select the best possible candidate for the said job, illustrates this point well. Unfortunately, if there are no criteria, upon which to decide between potential employees, the recruitment process will become inept. Hence, education beyond primary school level plays a pivotal role in hiring process.
	In summary, higher education has a significant part to play in humanising the youth, and in distinguishing between the skilled and the unskilled. Thus, I beg to differ with the idea that education beyond primary level is not needed. It is hoped that people will continue to acquire knowledge through education, regardless of the levels of unemployment.
Essay 600:
	It is a fact that several countries have a high unemployment rate nowadays. Therefore it is not necessary for the people to complete secondary school level. I personally disagree with the statement and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	It is undeniable that some countries have problems with unemployment these days. With the modern industrialisation, companies are reducing their employees gradually as they prefer to use the high technology machinery. And then many third world countries such as India, Pakistan or Bangladesh have a large population, but only several of them have high education. While the demand of low skill job is getting lesser, the population of low-skill workers is increasing rapidly in the past few years. As a result, the number of unemployed people has become higher than ever nowadays.
	Based on that fact, it is really important for people to have good and high education. To obtain the qualification, people should have obtained the basic education that starts from the basic level until the senior high school. When the numbers of educated people in the country increase, they could get a lot of benefits. One of them is that more people will understand about birth control, which is important for controlling the population. And as the country's population slowly decreases, the unemployment rate will also gradually decline. Therefore, it is really important for the government to provide a decent education for their people.
	In conclusion, it is true that many countries are facing unemployment issues currently. But I disagree if we should eliminate high school to solve the issues. Higher education would have a positive effect on the unemployment rate and therefore I recommend all children should complete their education until high school.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1924-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-832-overpopulation-of-urban-areas-has-led-to-numerous-problems",
Essay 601:
	Overpopulation in cities and urban areas is a growing problem that governments and individuals have to take into account seriously. They should work together to reduce the inconveniences caused by it. This essay will examine what are the issues caused by overcrowding and discuss on solutions.
	First of all, we can truly affirm that the first result of overpopulation in towns is without any doubts congestion and traffic jams which lead to serious pollution problems. Another inconvenience due to overcrowding is garbage from inhabitants. Many cities do not have the means to handle the charge of rubbish casting away by its habitants which lead to unclean cities.
	The lack of decent accommodation is also a growing problem that cities must deal with. Many people are unable to find a place to live in which is a step back for cities’ development.
	However and fortunately, if we sit down a minute to think about what each of us could do to tackle this problem it is not hard to find a solution. Individuals should use public transports as often as they can rather than using their own car and the government should build more roads and improve public transportation to address this issue.
	To handle the garbage flowing in streets they should sort out rubbish they throw away. For accommodation problems, the poorest should establish the sharing flats system. The government can expand the area and can help building more building to handle the accommodation issue.
	On its own side, governments might set a tax for car owners and develop public transports back with the earned money. For a cleaner city, they should create advertisements in order to educate its people about what to do with rubbish and give a fine to someone spotted for throwing a paper, rubbish or dust in the street. Finally, to overcome the accommodation problem governments should build more infrastructures for people in need.
	To sum up, we all know that these problems are worrying and growing but if every one of us thinks about what they can do to make it better. I am sure that these issues could be solved.
Essay 602:
	Ever since the industrial revolution, people have been migrating to urban centres in droves. Hence, cities have become overcrowded, which in turn has resulted in many hardships for their dwellers. It is argued that high costs of living and rising transport difficulties are two of the most serious problems brought about by overpopulation in cities. To tackle these issues, suburb developments and infrastructural changes will be analysed for viability.
Essay 603:
	The rising number of population in metropolitan places has caused significant repercussions. This has resulted in the incessant spread of pollution and an escalation of poverty. However, there are several preventive measures that the government can implement in order to address this social problem.
	Primarily, it is often said that an increase of inhabitants in a well-established region is accompanied by a rise in pollution. In cosmopolitan regions, there are impoverished groups who live in squalor. Some of them have chosen to settle in the city because they believe that that they can easily find an employment in this place. For example, in the Philippines, there are poor individuals who built homes in the boulevard of Metro Manila, thus contributing to the amount of waste. Clearly, these people dispose of their rubbish to the ocean, which may harm marine animals. In addition, it is apparent that most of the less affluent cohort has a large number of families. These members have personal needs, which cause a burden to the breadwinner of the family. Since the city has a number of educated workers the impecunious group often seems to struggle in searching a better employment. To illustrate, they cannot procure a decent job since they did not finish their education. Hence, these people will suffer from poverty, which results in higher incidences of famine.
	However, it can never be denied that the government can implement platforms, which will mitigate the social dilemma. First of all, they can increase the number of employment offers in suburbs such as providing them lands that can be cultivated. Therefore, impoverished people will not aggregate in the city. Secondly, the government can provide programs such as sex education to these individuals. As an instance, public health practitioners can orient them the appropriate use of contraceptives, which will control the number of family members.
	To conclude, the proliferation of pollution and the exacerbation of poverty are the negative ramifications of a rise of residents in the city. Nevertheless, government’s projects can curtail this social issue. It is very likely that the poverty will be in control if the government provides them job opportunities in suburbs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1922-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-831-people-should-simply-live-in-the-moment",
Essay 604:
	Musing on and planning about future are some of the most pleasurable mental activities one can perform. Many argue, that this is a waste of time. Nonetheless, I believe thinking and planning about future is one of the cardinal rules for success. To illustrate this, the optimal performance of subconscious mind when working towards a goal and ability to deal with unforeseeable events when one is prepared for the unknown will be analysed in this essay.
	To begin, of paramount importance in achieving success, is the functionality of human’s subconscious mind. For instance, most self-help authors avow that the subconscious mind works like a guided missile, once a target for future is set, it follows the path that would lead to the achievement of those objectives. A person’s mind without a thorough plan would be derailed from the track that would lead to the realisation of their dreams. This example debunks the idea that planning for and pondering on future is a waste of time.
	In addition, individuals who plan ahead of time, are better equipped to deal with the curve balls that life throws at them than their counterparts who choose to live in the moment. For instance, before deciding upon the mentor to be hired for one of my research projects, I spent a painstaking amount of time, gathering information about authorities, whom to contact, in case that the selected mentor did not have a credential that he or she boasts about having. Since I took the time to do this, when my selected mentor did turn out to a fraudster, I knew immediately who to report him to. Thus, as my personal experience taught me, planning in advance can save us from the worst scenarios that could play out.
	As a result, due to the higher probability of achieving one’s goals and improved ability to deal with unexpected outcomes, it is clear that planning for and thinking about future is not a waste of time. I feel that people should devote enough time to practice this.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1921-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-830-internet-is-an-excellent-means-of-communication",
Essay 605:
	In recent years, the internet has brought significant changes to our lives especially as tools of communication. Yet, there remain some disagreements that there has been a doubt from people to the internet in looking for true information. While, there are certainly valid arguments to the contrary. I personally believe that the benefits of the internet far outweigh its drawbacks.
	First of all, it is an indisputable fact that the internet has revolutionised the way we communicate. Despite there are some problems of social isolation, for example a problem occasionally seen in people who spend their time with computer terminal rather than relating to people in the real world, most of us have been benefited by the internet as useful and powerful tools of communication both to contact with loved ones in faraway places and to predict the price movement in global trade. Take the use of video call internet access as an example; people can communicate to their relatives by using it to make clear face to face conversation in terms of releasing homesickness each other. As a result, people’s sense of belonging would increase and distance problems have no meaning anymore.
	Turning to the other side of the argument, the internet, although, has placed the entire world at our fingertips and make all of the information can be accessed by a few click of a mouse. Admittedly, not all of them available on the internet are reliable and helpful because it could be changed by irresponsible people. This phenomenon causing some people tend more to choose printed newspaper than to read online information. Now, however, there have been provided newspapers that could be downloaded into a smartphone as the mobile trusted information.
	All things considered, I once again restate that the internet has had a positive impact on modern life because of its influence on communication. Nevertheless, there is a think concerning the flow of information on the internet not all covering true news.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1919-the-quality-of-life-in-large-cities-is-decreasing",
Essay 606:
	The world's biggest cities are alluring new inhabitants the way giant sponges suck the water out of their surrounding areas. Despite the various benefits the cities can provide, the quality of life suffers under a diverse set of environmental and socio-economic issues. In this essay, the most prevalent reasons for this issue and viable solutions will be discussed.
	One of the most critical reasons for the shattering quality of city life is various environmental pollutions. The smog in capital cities and other high-density urban areas - e.g. Shanghai and Los Angeles - has become unbearable for their inhabitants and require the undertaking of great measures. Another critical reason for deteriorating urban life quality is the intensified crime rates. For that reason, people are living under constant fear and threat; leaving them prone to stress-related diseases and higher probabilities of falling victims of crimes. For instance, in some of Latin America's biggest cities, it is not recommended for women to walk alone in the streets even during daylight and this city is not alone.
	For the problems, there are always solutions. Referring back to the pollution problem, the cure has been declared mainly by the means of cleaner energy and transportation systems. Many so-called 'green cities' like Copenhagen are leading the way in the development of higher quality public transports and prioritising light vehicle traffic. Dealing with crimes is far more complicated. Psychologists believe that a more beautiful, clean and happy external environment can reduce crime levels. Thus, this can be something city planners should look into more deeply when planning our urban areas. But most likely, providing people sufficient amount of opportunities and guidance in their lives would be the most effective prevention measure as far as I believe.
	To conclude, there are many adversities that can reduce the urban life quality such as environmental pollution and crime; however, there are also opportunities and tools to reduce these effects. Mainly, planning our cities more wisely by taking care of negative environmental and socio-economic effects on peoples' well-being, is necessary and doable.
Essay 607:
	Rapid industrialisation and urbanisation from the beginning of this century have drastically changed the urban landscape and brought unprecedented possibilities and opportunities - but not without the cost of declining living standards for city dwellers. Exponential population growth and unplanned urbanisation are the primary reasons for this declining quality of life. Proper urban planning, investing in public transports and offering government subsidies could be some effective solutions, in my opinion. 
	The prosperity and opportunity in big cities have attracted a huge number of people and the inrush of the population to major cities all around the world paradoxically made life difficult for all. With the ever-increasing inhabitants, cities become overcrowded, expensive, competitive and polluted. Growing competition shoot the property rent, makes employment difficult and increases traffic congestions. For example, the higher residents in many capital cities around the world make them congested, exorbitantly expensive and polluted. Therefore, urban citizens, especially the less well off, often experience a lower standard of living and get exposed to the negative sides of urban life.
	Considering the solutions, first, better planning is required. Some important amenities like public parks, sports centres, alternative roads and other infrastructures and facilities could dramatically enhance people's quality of living. Extensive investment in public transports would ease traffic congestion and make better transportation accessible to all. In theory, this would reduce air pollution, and possibly improve the well-being of the population. Finally, the government has to heavily subsidise important sectors like healthcare, education and entertainment so that they do not get more expensive and unaffordable by poor and middle-class people. 
	To conclude, the city attracts large population inflows basically with the promises of a better life, which, paradoxically then cause pressure on existing infrastructure, living costs and life standard. To mitigate such drawbacks, we need to have proper solutions including better planning and more government subsidies.
Essay 608:
	It is believed that the quality of life in big cities is declining and people who live in big cities always complain about numerous issues they face. The following essay will discuss some major reasons behind the issue, and some steps that people and government could do to resolve the problem.  
	For a number of reasons, many people believe that the quality of life in cosmopolitan cities such as New Delhi, London, Beijing, New York,  and Jakarta is degrading. Firstly, it is obvious that large cities have problems with traffic. As the population in big cities is growing rapidly each year, it means that the number of cars that commutes on streets is also increasing. The growing number of cars on streets and highways will definitely cause traffic congestion and impact on the air quality as well. Secondly, it is a fact that in many big cities such as New York or Manila, the crime rate is considerably higher. Consequently, the local people do not feel safe when they walk in the park or in the subway station, as they could be robbed or injured anytime. Increasing living expenses, housing issues, and ever-increasing competition in workplaces are some other reasons for the degraded lifestyle in such big cities. The rapid growth of new supermalls, factories and offices in residential areas are also the reasons many people feel that the quality of life in big cities is decreasing.     
	There are some solutions that governments and communities could consider to address the problem. One of them is that governments should provide decent and comfortable public transportation. By having a good public transportation system, it is hoped that people will choose to use public buses or trains rather than driving their own cars. As a result, it will reduce traffic congestion and air pollution. Another solution is that government should add more policemen and install more surveillance videos in areas with high crime activities. By having more policemen and video recorders, criminals will think twice before they do any crimes. Lastly, as existing big cities are overcrowded, governments should develop new residential and commercial areas. By having these new areas, it is hoped that some of the city people will move to new areas and reduce the density issue. Decentralisation of cities could be another effective solution to decrease the ever-increasing population in the cities. Finally, commercial areas should be kept far away from the residential areas and unplanned commercialisation in such areas should be prohibited.  
	In conclusion, it is a fact that the quality of life in large cities is decreasing nowadays and it is mainly due to density, traffic, uncontrolled commercialisation and crime problems. However, there are some recommendations that governments could consider and apply. They should build a better public transportation system, add more security personnel and develop new areas. By doing these recommendations, it is hoped that the quality of life in big cities will get better. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1918-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-828-people-want-their-country-to-host-an-international-sporting-event",
Essay 609:
	In today's world competition among countries for hosting any international sporting event has increased. Many people believe that international sporting events cause many issues. However, I strongly disagree because it gives an opportunity to all nations to come together.
	Firstly, organising any sporting event requires costly equipment, proper planning, manpower, arrangement, money and preparation. For instance, for arranging one cricket match panning, a stadium, schedule and other preparation are required. People also purchase costly tickets for watching the match. People who travel around the world for watching those matches require accommodation arrangement. This may cause unwanted expenses for countries who can host sporting events.
	However, we cannot deny the importance of sports in our life. Any international sporting event like Olympic Games gives an opportunity to all participants to perform their best and make records. Sports lovers around the world definitely would get the best entertainment because of such events. Nowadays films, television serials are entertaining and popular among people. Likewise, sports are also equally important, entertaining and popular. From this, it becomes quite evident that such kind of events encourages young people in sports activities.
	Furthermore, it gives an opportunity to all nations around the world to come together. For instance, in football world cup most of the countries can participate, which is very good for maintaining peace as well as maintaining good international relationship globally. This helps them to come closer to each other. This shows why sporting events have vast importance.
	In conclusion, although arranging a sports event is expensive and causes some issues, it has a vast importance at the global level. For any sportsperson, it gives a chance not only to perform but also to entertain. Thus disadvantages of sporting events outweigh the advantages, and I believe that there are too many benefits because of such events.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1916-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-827-government-should-put-every-effort-to-save-the-citizen-from-natural-disaster",
Essay 610:
	Undoubtedly, every year many humans' lives are jeopardised by the natural catastrophes. To protect them, individuals or organisations usually participate in assisting and sending aids to them. I firmly believe that the role of the administration is more than the other parts because of accessing to more equipment, networks and taxes.
	The first reason why governments should cover citizens' basic needs during natural calamities is that they usually access to better facilities. Definitely, availability of more human resources, medications or transportation can assist the state authority to be able to save more injured people's lives. For example, during tsunami occurred in the South Asia in 2003, the local governments burdened the duty of saving many citizens from death, far greater than any private organisation. Had not they saved humans, its mortality rate would have increased fundamentally.
	The second reason is that administrations have a better networking. This means, few hours after disasters, governments can immediately contact and report to the international organisations and ask monetary or non-monetary assistance from them; however, no any other private society or individual has this level of potential.
	Lastly, the administration should spend the taxes paid by the on critical conditions. Clearly, only governments have a direct access to this financial resource, and this money should be considered for helping of dwellers hurt by calamities. This spending should cover food, shelter, medical expenses, house repairs, education or even paying temporary pensions.
	In conclusion, citizens injured by calamities are better to be supported by their governments. I think they can have a better coverage due to accessing to more primary facilities, a better communication with worldwide organisations and tax resources.
Essay 611:
	In today’s modern world, we are constantly bombarded with the issue of natural disasters happening around the globe. Thus, some people assert that preventing the occurrence of natural disasters is merely the responsibility of government as they believe they can do nothing in preventing it from happening. Nevertheless, I think that cooperation between people and government is essential in protecting citizens from natural disasters.
	Undoubtedly, the government has the largest obligation to take the practical measures to prevent natural disasters from happening. They can, for example, employ the best scientists and geologists to predict the time of occurrence of disasters. By knowing when there will be a natural disaster, the government can then take the effective prevention to mitigate the potentially dangerous effects on human lives. To illustrate, to tackle the problem of the tsunami which may cause a severe death of inhabitants, the government should allocate a portion of the money to improve the current drainage system and to build barriers near the sea-coast. Thus, it is apparent that government has more power to lower the potential risks of natural disasters from happening and its effects on the citizens.
	However, it is not to say that citizens have no responsibility to protect themselves from natural disasters. They can take little but could prove useful ways in dealing with this problem. For instance, parents should educate their children from young to behave well by not simply throwing rubbish into the drains and rivers which may eventually cause blockage. This kind of act is proved to be useful in preventing natural disasters like flooding. In addition, they should also take part in a campaign which gives information on what can be done by citizens in order to minimise the negative impacts of natural disasters on human beings. Although there are limited actions that an individual can take in dealing with this problem, the possible negative impacts on humans can still be reduced if every citizen plays their own part.
	In conclusion, it is the responsibility of both government and individuals to mitigate the unanticipated impacts of natural disasters on human beings. I believe our nation will continue to prosper and flourish in the years to come and the citizens can be free from disasters.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1915-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-826-all-museums-and-art-galleries-should-be-free",
Essay 612:
	Tourism is a major driver for the economies of several countries, for instance, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, The Bahamas, etc. People come to these countries for a vacation and also to learn about the country’s culture by visiting national monuments, art galleries, museums, etc. Thus the question arises, should the entry to art galleries and museums be free?
	Art galleries and museums can serve as a source of income to the government or the organisation owning it. Also, these structures need regular maintenance to keep them up to date and without a fee, it can become difficult to arrange required money to maintain them. In addition to this, if the art gallery or museum becomes a success, the revenue emanating from it can not only be used to expand existing infrastructure but also build new such structures.
	However, apart from tourists, the local public should also be taken into account. The local people may not be able to afford the entry fee, especially those of a developing country and thus may miss out on important information about their motherland. A youngster missing out, on such information may be found wanting during discussions on the culture of his homeland when he visits foreign countries for study or work. Moreover, with people tending to adopt foreign culture easily these days, it is critical that the home culture is infused in them to preserve the integrity and originality of a nation. All of these can be encouraged by making entry to museums and art galleries free to local people. Apart from this, for students, it becomes easy to relate to the characters and events in their history books when they see them portrayed in the gallery or museum. Schools can organise free trips as part of learning series to these places.
	In conclusion, I strongly feel that the entry to museums and art galleries should be free as they are an important part of a country’s culture. The maintenance of these structures can be sponsored through individual donations or government support.
Essay 613:
	The issue of whether all museums and art galleries should be free to the public is of great interest to the public. Since they play a key role of countries’ culture, museums and galleries are widely regarded by people as free places. While some people think that it would be a waste of money and the government should pay the money to other important facilities. To my point of view, these museums should be free to us.
	Admittedly, not every person is interested in museums or art galleries and the government should spend the money on public facilities which most of the people can make use of them, for instance, the public transport, roads, parks, .etc. As the tax is from people’ effort, they should spend on most people’s requirement.
	Nevertheless, museums and art galleries play an important role in building up a country’s culture and it’s a key sign of modern developed society.  Since these art products are from people’s daily life which we didn’t realise but more than daily business, they sometimes show some higher level ideas. For instance what’s people’s real dreams inside the heart, what’s beauty and dirty. The most important reason that we visit the museums and enjoy the art product is that we need these positive elements. People need positive courage to strongly face the problems in life or need further suggestion to make their dream come true and sometimes the successful art can make it. When we fully understand the important role of art in museums or galleries, we would not regard them as wasting time or money.
	In conclusion, museums and art galleries make a contribution to a better society because they provide a wide variety of good art which would make a great effect on people’s work and life, so they should be free to the public.
Essay 614:
	In today’s modern world, one of the most controversial issues relates to whether the museums and art galleries around the globe should be made free to the tourists or not due to the reason that they play an indispensable role to educate the public about the cultures and traditions of a country. Personally, I strongly agree that all museums and art galleries should be made free access to the public.
	There are a couple of reasons why the museums and art galleries should be made free. To begin, free admission fees will definitely be able to attract more tourists to visit. It is important to ensure that the cultures of a nation can be well-spread and known by both the local tourists as well as the foreigners. It is, indirectly, opening up an avenue to widen their horizons so that they can become more knowledgeable who can contribute endlessly to the society. It will also help them to reduce the experience of culture shock when they arrive in a new place in the future.
	The factor which supports the view of making all the museums and art galleries free access to the tourists is that they may soon become one of the famous tourist attractions in their countries which are effective in promoting the traditions of the locals. With free access to the museums and art galleries, the locals and foreign tourists can visit them at no cost and it is proven to be one of the successful methods to attract those backpackers and low expenditure tourists to visit. Undoubtedly, they will be able to acquire knowledge about the history of a country and also the cultures of the local people which will make their travelling more meaningful. In addition, sooner or later, they will learn how to respect others cultures which may be slightly or totally different from theirs and become more open-minded.
	In conclusion, I think all the museums and art galleries should be free in order to spread the cultures of a particular country effectively to all over the world. I believe every individual will no longer experience any culture shock once these places are free to access by everyone when they arrive in a new place.
Essay 615:
	There are many cultures and traditions in this world and people believe and respect them from them from various points of views. While considering about a culture in a country, we cannot even forget its museums and art galleries as it plays a great role in preserving the culture. Moreover, they are the best method of displaying the history and values to the youth in a country. Therefore most probably this is a better idea of giving free entrance to them for people.
	Firstly, museum and art galleries are doing a great job in protecting the value of the history of a culture. Furthermore, they have all the relevant things such as artefact, statues etc. which are important to be kept with it for saving. As an example, in many countries, there is even one museum or art gallery which keep valuable historical things in it which otherwise might have been lost.
	Secondly, displaying of the things which give memorable and valuable feeling to people is also an important role of museums and art galleries. Moreover, people can visit there and see for their past lives of ancestors and how the society has developed up to now. For instance, we can see most of the displays illustrates the ancient stories.
	To sum up, by looking at the major roles of museums and art galleries, which are preserving and displaying of historical values to the future world, I totally agree for giving the free visits to everyone as it helps to protect the heritage of a countries society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1914-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-825-the-era-of-the-silver-screen-is-coming-to-an-end",
Essay 616:
	It is believed that the popularity of cinema theatre is gradually decreasing these days since people will change their interest to other platforms of entertainment. I personally disagree with the statement as there are many people who still love going to the cinema, and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	On the one hand, it is true that with the rapid development of information technology, people could select various kinds of movie entertainments these days, besides going to the cinema. Some people prefer to purchase or rent the DVD and watch it at home since it is cheaper than going to the cinema. And then, with the existence of internet technology, people could just easily download the film and watch it on their computer. Therefore, a group of people have estimated that the era of cinema theatre will be finished in the next few years.
	Despite the various offer from other entertainment platforms, it is fascinating to see the number of people who watch films at the cinema have not dropped until today. Many people still choose to watch recommended films at the cinema, since they feel that the experience and the excitement are totally different than at home. The advanced digital effects and the surrounding sound system do affect to the atmosphere and the attraction of the film which satisfy the viewers. And then several people choose to watch movies at the cinema due to they could concentrate more on than at home. They feel that there are many distractions when they watch films at home. For instance, the annoying noise of their little children or pets. As a consequence, cinemas still become one of the favourite entertainment places.
	In conclusion, some people believe that cinema’s popularity seems to decrease as people choose to see films through other platforms. Although it is true that there are various types of devices which can be used for watching films such as video recorder or DVD player, I personally believe that the number of people who go to cinemas will not decrease, as the sensation and the excitement of watching films in theatres are totally different.
Essay 617:
	In the 21st century, cinemas have become ubiquitous. However, being widespread movie theatres aren't able to lure people to spend their leisure time. It is agreed that gradually the number of people turn up at theatres is going to decrease in view of current trends.  It is due to ticket prices that have skyrocketed over the last few years along with the advent of online movie rentals and download.
	Firstly, the cost of tickets has surged in the last decade. For example, it is almost 10 times more that we are spending compared to 1990's. Unfortunately, this is something that has a negative impact which is difficult to encounter despite the advanced technology, better sitting and ease of booking. Thus, it makes it clear why the future of big screen is bleak.
	Secondly, the introduction of online movie libraries for rentals as well as downloads at affordable prices. For instance, iTunes and Netflix have jumped into this area to offer customers economical options to buy or rent movies. It’s more appealing to stay in and watch something on a computer screen or tablet with no physical constraints. Therefore, it’s hard to imagine for people to show up at cinemas. The environment of the cinema halls and the quality of movies are also in question. Very few families nowadays go to cinema while this was a common trend even in later 90’s.
	To summarise, it is the expensive tickets as well as the movie watching options on the internet that have led to the decline of people visiting cinemas to spend their free time. Thus, it is clear why the number of people going to watch a flick will eventually decrease further in years to come.
Essay 618:
	It is widely accepted that silver screen is the best way of entertaining people. While some people argue that the trend for going to cinema have decreased nowadays, some people are in the opinion that, still it is of interest to many more people who desire the mind relaxation through arts.
	To begin, there is no denying the fact that time constraints encountered is a common issue for people today and these people do not have much spare time to spend on movies. Especially, because of the time lap, one will have to spend on watching cinema may be a bit of long. Due to the busy life schedules of people, they will not deserve to commit such a long time for entertainment and will opt for short time entertaining activities. On the other hand, just because of this competitive nature of people's lives, they will engage in more and more mind relaxation activities in order to reduce the stress level and go for a silver screen and watching a movie.
	Secondly, with the development of technology, people all over the world enjoy latest technological equipment and innovative as well as newly featured home theatre systems lie on the top of the list. With the availability of such new, highly modified systems in hand, people tend to stay home and watch movies with their entire family. In this way, people will not have to spend time on travelling as well as they can enjoy more free postures while they are watching the movie in their own home. By opting to watch movies at home instead of going to the cinema, people can also find it flexible to watch it at their convenient. Although it is free and flexible to watch a movie at home, the feeling of a change will not be sensed by the mind as it happens while watching a movie in the cinema. Therefore, some people still prefer to experience the change that can have while they are sitting in the cinema with their loved ones.
	To sum up, it is acceptable that people tend to be away from the silver screen due to numerous circumstances. Yet, I believe, there are some good reasons that the era of the silver screen will not come to an end although there are reductions in the number of people who will go for it and hence disagree with the statement.
Essay 619:
	Cinema was really popular amongst people in old days and still is, however, many believe that the age of silver screen is going to be over soon as more and more people become less interested in visiting cinema just to watch a movie. In my opinion, I believe they will never go out of fashion or forgotten.
	The first point to consider is why some people would think that cinema is losing its popularity. One reason is that, nowadays, almost all the families have televisions in their home and they would want to see a movie in the conform of their home rather than going all the way to a multiplex. For instance, these days, it's easy to switch on TV and look for a movie you like and watch it laying on the couch. Likewise, many companies provide online video watching services and people are able to buy movies directly from the internet and watch it later anytime. For example, Netflix offers monthly subscriptions for their large online movie and TV series database making any program just a click away.
	Nevertheless, there are two main reasons why silver screen will never become obsolete. First is that the feeling of watching movie on televisions or online will never surpass the instant gratification and thrills of watching in a theatre, because the screens in theatre are a lot bigger compared to a computer monitor or television screen and the sound systems, such as that of an IMAX theatre, is far better than home theatre system. It can be also observed that 4D movie watching is becoming a trend in the modern society and it is making cinema popular, especially for children. It is not easy to experience 4D at home as the equipment are expensive and not easy to set up.
	In my conclusion, the silver screen will never lose its glitter and there always will be people wanting to watch first-day-first-show of a blockbuster movie.
Essay 620:
	Cinema is the entertainment mode for many people. It is the most affordable recreational activity which comes in handy for all kinds of people. If we see the development in the field of cinema, there has been a tremendous development in the field of the silver screen. In the past, cinema houses were limited but people used to go to cinema houses due to the inadequacy of entertainment media in houses.
	As the technology developed, the technical advancements in the field of home entertainment made entertainment more affordable .This affordability made all to have their own entertainment systems. This change led to the downing trend of the people’s interest to the cinema houses. Eventually, after a certain period in the future, people might not be coming to the silver screen houses rather they would be liking to sit at home and enjoy.
	If we see the recent number of people attending to a cinema house, we have to agree to the fact that there has been a considerable drop in the number of people attending cinema houses. As far as my opinion is concerned, the euphoria of the silver screen is diminishing and it would not be surprised to note that people in future do not go to cinema house. If we consider an example of the cinema viewing experience, South India is a good example people used to see a movie in cinema hall and the released movie used to play in the allocated hall for at least 80 days but if we see the present situation a new movie in an allocated hall stays hardly for 2 to 4 weeks. There is a considerable drop in the viewing experience of people, the reason behind this is the availability of home entertainment, access to various other programs which are attractive than movies, piracy, change in lifestyle ,competitive world bulldozed by career goals. Not only this, few of the movies which are made now are not attractive in comparison with the movies of the earlier era, they do not possess entertainment values.
	From the above, it can be adjudged that silver screen is definitely coming to extinction, maybe not in the near future but after a certain period of time, the cinema houses would stand as a monumental piece.
Essay 621:
	These days, the existence of cinemas is a hot topic of discussion for not only the journalist but also common folk. Many daily's features and public debates topic have been focusing this issue. Though millions support the opinion of the silver screen will exist in future, I strongly hold the view that the silver screen era will be taken its last breath soon.
	One of the obvious reasons: advanced televisions and other electronic gadgets facilitate to watch all visual media programme, including films, from the home settings. These facilities cut down the number of cinema customers significantly. Moreover, cinemas mostly cost an arm and a leg for common folk. Televisions breach this barrier considerably. To cite an example, recent  UK statistical department study reveals that the ticket sale of the cinema has significantly declined on Sunday evening because of a popular television music show  aired the same time.
	Another reason to support my view is that the live football, cricket and music concert attract massive public attention. They give a complete visual treat, which can not be offered by many cinemas. Furthermore, these kinds of live activities explore several avenues of entertainment than cinemas. Increasing the number of music and sports events is the best epitome for public acceptance.
	However, an army of people argues that cinema world will not be lost because of the new talented artists will come to the silver screen soon. Perhaps it may be true to some degree, but we can not deny that the other medium of entertainment will also offer high quality of participants’ perfectionism.
	To crown it all, the other mode of entertainment will shut the popularity of cinema in the future, though some new talented actors and moviemakers will appear in the cinema world in future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1913-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-824-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-government-providing-free-health-care",
Essay 622:
	To begin with, medical services and treatments are quite expensive and the majority of the people, even in a rich nation, can not afford it. This is why the government has to intervene and make the health care affordable for all and provide free services for poor citizens. It is natural that a great number of people avoid meeting doctors for minor diseases due to expensive medical services. Many of them end with major healthcare issues which could have been easily avoided if they were diagnosed at the initial level. In fact, the ratio of such diseases is quite high - according to a Health Care Review Committee Report published recently. Moreover, epidemic diseases are often spread among the destitute population and then affect the whole nation. If those poor citizens are out of proper medical treatment, this is a concern for the whole nations.
	Among downsides, free medical services often lack the quality and have fewer doctors, nurses and medical instruments. This makes the diagnosis of a disease harder and people often get poor services from such a free camp. They have to wait for a long and this is detrimental for patients who need emergency medical attention. Furthermore, the corruption often drains a large amount of money and adds burden to the government. However, these can all be controlled if proper measures are taken. In fact, the drawbacks of free public medical service are not good enough excuse to spot supporting it.
	To conclude, free health care service is a great way of ensuring medical treatments for all and every government should maintain it for the overall benefit of a nation.
Essay 623:
	Healthy people build a healthy society and this is why it is a fundamental right for people. One should take care of one’s health but the people live below the poverty line cannot afford the expenses of medical checkups and to them, health care support must be provided by the state. However, there are certain drawbacks in providing free medical care.
	To begin with, the state must provide free health care to take care of the citizens, especially who can not afford expensive private healthcare services. Someone suffering from any severe health problem will be able to be diagnosed at the right time and consequently, the disease can be treated properly. Finally, the vaccines given at these centres would protect babies from dangerous diseases. The government has a responsibility to ensure proper medical services to its citizens and free health care for all is the way to achieve it.
	However, some people may consider these free health camps to be disadvantageous. It is certainly possible that the concerned corrupt authorities could misuse the funds allocated for free health service and offer poor medical treatment. As a result, the financial burden on a country rises. Moreover, some people may get habituated to visit a hospital for simple silly reasons and at times, one may overuse the free medicines available and get resist to that medicine which is very drastic.
	These days due to the advancement in science and technology, someone is able to determine any health abnormality at the initial level himself. For instance, the Intent has a great source of advice, tips and treatment prescribed by professional doctors and researchers that ordinary people can access and follow anytime. From this regards, people should follow a healthy lifestyle and access these free resources for their health benefits without burdening the government for their minor health-related issues.
	To conclude, the state policy should include poor citizens to the free health care services, impose a small fee for others and monitor the service offered to the people.
	Advantages of government providing free healthcare?
	Disadvantages of government providing free health care?
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1912-men-are-now-the-ones-suffering-from-sexual-discrimination",
Essay 624:
	Discrimination between the man and the woman is a burning issue to discuss. The roles of men and women have changed in the society than it was 20 years ago and this change is faster these days. With the advancement of time, now women are dominant in different roles while men are suffering the sexual disparities. I agree with the statement and the reasons behind the agreement are as followed.
	Earlier, before 2000, women were subject to be dominated everywhere. They had the typical roles to care for the home. But after the millennium, a sudden change took place everywhere. The majority of the women became aware of their rights, responsibilities and changed their roles. The woman who used to be escorted by family members is now free to move anywhere, runs her own business, makes deals perfectly, and leads her own life. Undoubtedly this is a positive change in their roles. But with that, a growing number of women are now denying their responsibility for their family and men are helpless in this regards.  
	The positive changes have made women independent and are prioritised in all sectors of development, economy, education, healthcare, jobs etc. But unfortunately, they are replacing the roles of men. They are occupying the positions of men and dominating the world. As a result, now males are turning subject to sexual discrimination as the women experienced in yester decades. The hanged scenarios led males to be less prioritised in different sectors, especially the most important sector - employment. The discrimination is visible when a university decides the reserve 50% seats for the women or the local parliament have a certain percentage of seats reserved for the women. I had such a real-life experience in last month. I went for an interview with a multinational corporation against the position of Junior executive. I was surprised that the corporation decided to recruit females more in number than males in that position. We were only three male applicants competing for a single post while there were 15 women against 10 chairs of junior executives.
	The experience evidently testifies women are more engaged with out of home activities and the roles they played before changed greatly which now suffers men in terms to sexual discrimination.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1911-young-people-should-spend-more-time-on-cultural-activities",
Essay 625:
	How the youths should spend their time is a great concern for many. Some are more involved in cultural activities than sports, while others prefer sports over the cultural activities. No doubt cultural activities are important, but in my opinion, sports are more important and that is why I partially disagree with this statement.
	Undoubtedly there are necessities of cultural activities to get entertained or learn different cultural aspects. It improves mental faculty and refreshes the mind. It also helps to nurture the culture and learn the customs. Besides, performing in theatres or enjoying them develops a deeper sense of the world and life. But at the same time if we ignore the necessity of physical activities, for sure we are to experience a massive health disaster in near future.
	Not to mention, the youths need to have some physical activities to keep a good health. Health is wealth. So, unless they are healthy enough, they would be unable to enjoy other activities. For instance, sports help to keep people fit. Participation in sports makes them healthy in terms of physical aspects. Consequently, when they would be healthy, they could participate in many other activities spontaneously. But the lack of physical activity or lack of participation in sports may bring health disorders among them.
	Having said that, we all know that the majority of the diseases today appear due to our less involvement in outdoor activity and sedentary lifestyle. The more people are inactive, the more they are prone to diseases like heart disorders, diabetes, obesity, mental depression, frustration etc. Usually, doctors suggest to take regular physical exercise to improve the physical fitness and it helps to keep them cheerful.
	All things considered, the youths should participate in sports in line with the participation in cultural activities. I am sure that nobody will prefer to listen to music or enjoy theatrical performances with a massive disorder in their heart which has been developed for physical inactivity. I believe it is imperative to the youths to allocate their time primarily to sports and then for the cultural activities.
Essay 626:
	Some people think that youths should spend more time on cultural activities such as music and theatre and their participation in sports should be reduced. This essay will describe the importance of sports that must be taken into account for the youngster and disagrees with the view.
	Sports help young people to be fit both physically and psychologically. Exercise is an inevitable part of our lives and the sport is a better method of exercise than any other activity. For having a healthy society, we have to encourage young people to play outdoor games even more than they do these days. A young generation who actively participates in spots have fewer diseases and cut the government's healthcare budget. For instance, nations with healthy citizens are more successful in developing their economy, according to a report published by the Global Healthcare Research Centre. So, encouraging young people to spend more time on sports will help us build a better world.
	The next importance for youth to play sports is to learn teamwork. What is the better place for adolescents to learn to coordinate with other teammates than in a sports field? As a team member, a child learns to interact with others and work for a common goal. This experience will help them to reach their aim in life. Finally, it opens the potential of becoming a successful sportsman. The youngster who is playing football today could be the next Christiano Ronaldo or David Beckham.
	In conclusion, despite the importance of cultural activities, such as music and theatres, playing sport have an undeniable contribution for adolescents.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1910-large-salaries-paid-to-top-executives-of-major-companies",
Essay 627:
	When it is about the recruitment of any top-level executive at a company, their salaries become higher than the average. Besides, a company usually pay a large percentage of their salary only to a handful of top level employees. It happens as individuals holding those posts have to take great responsibilities, make big decisions, possess their unique ways to generate incredible profit for the company they are working for and so on. I think that they deserve a high payment for their unparalleled contributions to the company.
	It may sound weird that a top official should get a large payment than the ordinary employees but the answer is critical. Generally, the ordinary employees work hard for hours and invest their manual labour to increase the production level. Certainly, their labour counts for the company's growth but at the end of the day, the decision made by the higher executives determines the fate of the company.
	On the other side, the job of a top official is mostly invisible to the ordinary workers. The job responsibilities of a top executive may range from controlling the quality of production to dealing with the prestigious clients, setting up the marketing strategy for survival in competition, planning for future product development, analysing the consumers’ needs, inventing newer products, making future plans, hiring and firing employees, tackling the market inflation and more. Actually, bearing such responsibilities is not an easy task indeed. When an ordinary employee's responsibility ends when the clock ticks to 5, there is no schedule for a top level employee.  
	Moreover, if any of the steps turn into a failure, the top executive is to be liable, and so, he has to set some other strategies to overcome such unwanted situations. But expecting such fine-tuned results from the ordinary employees is impossible. They are only trained to complete the production in time. If they are assigned with strategic roles, the entire company will collapse within a short span of time. They lack the experience, skills and foreseeing capacities like the top executives.  
	All things considered, I think hiring top executives with a larger salary is truly justified. They invest their labour, time and skills to improve the company's condition and remain behind the screen. In fact, without top level employee's  strategy or effective planning, it is not possible for any company to sustain in the competitive market.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1909-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-820-very-few-young-people-read-newspapers-or-follow-the-news-on-tv",
Essay 628:
	There has been a dramatic increase in the numbers of newspaper and television channel over the last few years. Despite this increasing numbers, a large proportion of the population, which consist of youngsters seem uninteresting to pursue news on print and electronic media. Timings, traditional and boring way of presenting information and new interests among young are few factors that impede the youngster attention towards reading or watching the news. However, there is a dire need to adapt new technologies to cater youngster interest. For instance, the online version of the news, easy accessibility and encouragement from guardians can help a lot in this regard.
	Firstly, newspaper always comes in the morning, which is the busiest time of youngsters, as they are approaching schools and colleges at that time. Secondly, nowadays mass media is full of boring and traditional news, having nothing new for the youngster that can attract their attention. Thirdly, study loads and pressure of completing assignments, projects and research work are the main hindrances to following news on media. Apart from that, youngsters spend more time on social networking sites and that’s why they have less interest in traditional newspapers or news channels.  
	However, media could appeal numerous youngsters by providing them online news and video streaming by the use of technology that will be more convenient and easily accessible for them. Additionally, interaction by the forum, chats and comments also play a pivotal role in pulling target audience. Moreover, youngsters should have access to newspapers on bus stops, stations and waiting for areas of institutions.
	To sum up, I would like to say that new and innovative ways of information dissemination with the use of technological advancements would definitely influence youngsters. Accessibility of resources and guidance from the parents could also be fruitful.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1908-many-people-think-olympic-games-and-world-cup-are-an-enormous-waste-of-money",
Essay 629:
	Impacts and costs of international sporting events are quite controversial in the present time. Some of the schools are focusing on the benefits of holding international sports events while the opposite school is on the view that this is a waste of time, funds and effort. This essay delves with the viewpoint before it closes the argument.
	Firstly, international sporting events help to build some special relations between the hostile countries. For instance, the relationship between India and Pakistan is not so friendly and they have disputes on many issues. But the disputes are overlooked on the playground. When the teams participate in cricket, the relationships among the players are not hostile. They are cooperative and exercise the best friendly attitude with each other. If it continues, it is expected that the cold relations between the two countries will turn warmer someday. Moreover, such events bring foreign revenue, inspire sports lover to take part in outdoor games and promote a healthy lifestyle.
	But on the contrary, the disadvantages are also acknowledgeable. When an international and exciting sports competition is arranged, people want to watch those events – some prefer to watch live in the playground while many like to watch on television sitting at home. To enjoy a high voltage cricket match or exciting Olympic events, people need to waste their valuable times both day and night. A hardcore cricket fan may bunk office, school or may make late-rising early next morning for sleeping late at night. Thereby, in a greater consideration, this is a waste of time, effort and money for the ordinary people. On top of that, hosting those events requires a huge sum of money and efforts.
	To finish the argument, I would like to say that, though arranging big events is costly, they have many advantages. They promote friendly relationship, entertain people, promote tourism and inspire young people to participate more in sports. This is why I disagree with the view that big sporting events are an enormous waste of fund, time and effort.
Essay 630:
	During the preceding decades, World Cup and Olympic tournaments have gained immense attention due to its vital effect on our society. But debates have emerged about their importance and whether they are worthy of the tremendous amount of money that is poured to organize them. However, I have a firm conviction that such events are completely beneficial for us from the social, financial, and political scale. Besides, I agree that they deserve every penny, minute and work that is exerted.
	Firstly, sports competitions, especially at the global level, have benefits. As they nurture the ambition of success in youths’ mind which encourages them to do their best in training and preparation for such games, they motivate millions of young minds. In consequence, juveniles focus on participating in athletics, and that tackles the invasion of drugs in our communities to a great extent.
	Regarding the advantages on the economic basis, arranging global sports events enhances the infrastructures of the host country.
	Moreover, it helps improve the national income besides providing more job opportunities even before or after the event. For example, the Brazilian economy has been flourishing after holding the world cup and the Olympic Games in 2014 and 2016, respectively.
	Besides, a positive impact of global tournaments, on international peace, was significantly observed in many situations. In such games, all players gather to share their passion for sports, despite the relations between their countries. For instance, in Athens 2004 Olympic games, South and North Korea participated as a country which was a good step towards achieving peace between them.
	In conclusion, sports events in global scale required money, time and effort. But the benefits they bring justifies the costs it requires.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1907-people-do-not-have-such-a-close-relationship-with-their-neighbours",
Essay 631:
	The present age is fast paced and marked with the advancement of science and technology. As a result, we are turning into machines than human and that is resulting in a limited relationship even with the next door neighbours. Now, the relationship among neighbours is dismal than the past. This essay delves into the reasons for this distant relationship among neighbours and some ways to improve it.
	First of all, people, these days, lack their leisure hours. They are unable to arrange times for socialising. In fact, they are to follow the strict routines, execute respective occupational duties, and if someone fails, survival turns challenging for them. So, people cannot manage extra hours to spent with neighbours. As a result relationship among people declines.
	On contrary, often people do lack the sense of consideration. They seem to have less care for others. For instance, I have a neighbour in my next flat who is a singer and work at a local band. So, when he starts practising in the middle of the night, it is really irritating for me. I have notified the issue several times to him but that was of no use. So, I decided not to socialise with him anymore as his irrational behave developed an unpleasant feeling inside me about him. The similar scenarios are found randomly that is resulting in relationship decline.
	Actually, there are no specific ways to improve the relationship with neighbours. I believe the application of common sense is enough towards a healthy relationship with neighbours. The most important matter about this – each of the people should be aware of their rights and responsibilities, and limitations. For instance, I am not responsible for caring for my neighbour’s dog on my lawn or home. Similarly, the neighbours should also be aware of such issues so that any of their attitudes or activities cause trouble for others. when everyone will be aware of the issue, I think the relationship will come to a pleasant level.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1906-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-817-government-should-invest-in-training-top-athletes-to-win-major-competitions",
Essay 632:
	There are two schools of thoughts whose views vary from one another. One of the schools is of the view that the available monetary resources must be diverted towards enhancing the skills of a few of the top athletes, which the country adorns. The view of the other school, however, is skewed on the other side which believes that the financial resources, at the disposal of a country, must be directed towards making available better facilities to the general public, at large. According to the other school, the impetus must be towards extending benefits to a large base of the population rather than restricting the flow of benefit to a privileged class.
	Though the importance of exploiting the talent of top athletes, who are few in numbers, cannot be ignored, as they do bring the charm, glory, laurel and fame to their parent country by winning sports competition, albeit, at the cost of public, at large. As a matter of fact, the opinion of one of the schools of thoughts was vouched for, in one of the articles of the weekly magazine, The XAW. The magazine depicted the amount spent for promoting sports by investing the taxpayer's money, on a few top sports person. The data clearly revealed and drew a picture that clearly did show the exorbitant amount so spent. It can be safely said that these are not mere speculations of an armchair dreamer but are the bare truth revealed by the statistics.
	Thus, it can be candidly and, with evidence, concluded that the government must divert their economic resources towards providing general facilities, which are mandatory, to the population, which has a large base, rather than investing money on a few top athletes. It, however, does not diminish the value of sports because sports is one of the activities which provide health to anyone who pursues it and of course health, for everyone is dearer than the fine opals, more precious than the emeralds!
Essay 633:
	The first opinion of the debate is to spending money on providing facilities for the commoners by the government while the second one argues that the investment should be for the top athletes only. This is a well-debated topic and deserves some attentions. In my opinion both the schools are correct in some senses and they have some reasons to believe so.
	Firstly, it should be considered that the number of ordinary people is considerably higher than the top athletes. So, they are in need of some sports facilities where they could have the chance of physical activities. In fact, we all are aware of the importance of physical activities and how they benefit us all. In my locality, there are no public parks available where the people can take some exercises in morning or evening hours. So, the number of patients with physical disorders like diabetes, obesity, heart disease etc. is on the rise in my locality here in Jakarta and the issue got covered on the local dailies as well. The government in a county should be more focused on improving the public health than winning some trophies.
	On the contrary, top athletes are assets for a nation. Their failure in any competition is the disgrace for the entire state. Unless they are trained in a perfect manner, they would be unable to participate in major competitions and bring the desired fame for the country. So, a proper training is a must for them. It would really be a humiliation when media will cover stories over their failures in international sporting events and if that happens for lack of government appreciation.
	Therefore, considering both the arguments, I think the government should make a balance between the two. Usually, physical activities make people fit and help to be an effective workforce. So, if the mass people turn physically inactive, an economic disaster is a must. Further, if the top athletes are ignored, it will be a disgrace for the nation. Hence, the I believe the government should pay attention in both the case equally.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1905-homeschooling-belongs-to-the-past-and-is-unacceptable-in-modern-society",
Essay 634:
	Education is the backbone of a nation and the true development of a nation relies on the way our children are being educated. Though homeschooling was quite a remarkable idea in the past, this, is in my opinion, is no longer applicable and suitable in the modern society.
	First of all, the concept of ‘self-educated’ is not acceptable in any job sector and without the certification from college or university level, someone can’t even apply for a post. Thus homeschooling will only increase the unemployment in the society while it was an excellent way of educating people in the last century. Moreover, parents these days send their children to the daycare centre from the very early stage and thus they have no time for homeschooling in a sense.
	Second, the education system in the past was not as formal as it is today. Thus having home tutors and mentors at home by rich people to educate their children was probably the best arrangement. On the contrary, poor could not afford tutors and thus engaged their children in some sort of works from their childhood. The picture has changed and the modern government system allows poor and rich students alike to study in a school which is subsidised by government funds in many cases.  
	Finally, homeschooling is no longer the norm in education these days. We have formal educational institutes that employ best teachers for every subject and follow a national and international course curriculum.  Without attending formal educational institutes, the students would not be treated as educated in the country, job sector, and even in the society.
	In conclusion, parents should help their children on their studies at home so that they can excel in school. The school is the main standard of education these days while homeschooling has become an obsolete idea while it has been a successful system in the pre-modern era.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1904-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-815-the-camera-has-changed-the-way-we-look-at-the-world",
Essay 635:
	The invention of the camera was one of the greatest findings of all time. For the last two decades, photos and videos have become an integral part of the human culture. Needless to say, the camera has changed the way of celebration and the perception of a normal person. Nowadays there is rarely any occasion which is not being captured by a camera or video recorder. Also, the ways important events are being telecasted have changed a lot.
	Firstly, the camera has opened up avenues for keeping our memorable events intact throughout our life span. These still images and videos captured by the camera can later be used to cherish those moments of happiness. Take the first rice ceremony of a newly born child, for instance. When this child grows up, he can feel his parent's exact feeling, through the video captured at the time of the event. Thus, it is quite evident that the camera has changed the way of celebration of our memorable occasions.
	Moreover, the camera has also changed the way we look at the world. For example, in the non-camera era, it was impossible for any individual to view the live telecast of the very important "rail budget" being organised at the parliament. The introduction of the camera has made this possible. Now sitting at any corner of the world, a person can watch the live streaming of any important event being organised somewhere else. Looking at this illustration, it can be easily seen how the camera has changed the way we look at the world.
	After analysing the above points, we can safely conclude that the introduction of the camera is indeed one among the very few live changing inventions. It has changed our perception towards the world along with the way of celebration. It is also expected that in the foreseeable future the usage of the camera will even grow higher.
Essay 636:
	Nowadays, visual systems have revolutionised humans’ lives. People of the world have a better view of their surroundings by using a camera. I personally believe that recording of live events, using of visual effects in movies and availability to more equipped cameras in news are three important reasons behind it.
	Obviously, recording of live national celebrations and satellite TV programmes, producers these days are able to broadcast different nations’ cultures to the world. For instance, the U.S. Citizens have become familiar with Asians’ cultures far easier due to accessing better to the live events shown on Satellite or the Internet. However, in the past, they only had to find them in magazines, newspapers or sometimes local flyers.
	The second reason behind it is that watching movies, people can recognise better other lifestyles. Definitely, since the introduction of the camera, western culture has become more understandable to other nations because they are always exposed to visual scenes related to western countries, shown on television. As a prime example, Jeans, a very popular fashion in the U.S.A., became a common type of wearing as they were shown in western movies, and now even in very remote areas of Africa people used to use these clothes.
	Lastly, we can see viewers have deeper concepts to the reports broadcasted on the media. Had not the camera been invented, individuals would not have accessed to such high qualities of these visual scenes, while now they can immediately watch live news, including other countries’ festivals, national celebrations or worldwide sports championships. For example, I became familiar with the Chinese’s festivals shown on BBC news. Watching it led me to know more about these people’s habits, food or their ceremonies.
	In conclusion, by using the camera, more details of humans’ lives have been figured out. I give a green light to this device because it has been extremely influential not only in the movie but in news or other live programs shown on TV.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1903-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-814-old-fashioned-values-no-longer-seem-important",
Essay 637:
	Social status, wealth and material possession have turned into the indicators to judge someone in the society these days while traditions, good quality and honour are no longer valued, though they are the de facto to judge a person. I agree that modern world has a completely different set of criteria for assessing or honouring a member of the society, though they are not the real elements to define a person.  
	Earlier, societies had some specific indicators to judge a man or woman. Among the judging indicators, they preferred qualities like honesty, kindness, trusts, honour etc. But with the change of time, such pointers have vanished. Unluckily the present society prefers social status or riches to judge anyone. A real-life experience may make it simpler. Recently, I closely observed a local election in a distant part of India. Among the two candidates – one of them came from a high profile background while the other one was a shabby man who merely had his own permanent living space in the locality. The majority of the people supported the first individual. They took him granted as a gentleman as he is enriched with material possessions. On the contrary, only a few people supported the poor guy. He was unable to spend bucks for the election but was competing on some moral grounds. He dreamt of changing the society. Unluckily he was defeated by the wealthy candidate. The rich man did not allow his opposition to be an obstacle to his success.
	This triumph and defeat made me realise that material possessions are the key to judging as important in society. When people have enough riches to spend, they can buy social status and supports. But unfortunately, when someone comes up with humanitarian features, social elites term them as old-fashioned. They are ignored.
	Therefore, I think such ideas should be changed. We should appreciate the humane features than social status and material possessions. Otherwise, the consequences will be detrimental. When the social status will be the indicator to judge oneself, I believe that would be too humiliating and may lead to massive social disorder. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1902-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-813-it-is-often-difficult-for-young-people-to-find-a-good-job",
Essay 638:
	It is challenging indeed to get a reliable job as a fresher as the employers, in most of the cases, pick the employees who have a past history of work in reputed organisations and have relevant work experience. But this trend should be changed. I support that the government should inspire employers to pick youths in needs of new workers for the following reasons.
	First of all, a large number of educated youths are unemployed in different parts of the world. For instance, in my land, Pakistan, the number of educated youths is not few. A substantial number of highly educated youths are seeking jobs but not getting as the employers prefer the expert hands. They do not rely upon the unskilled fresh graduates. If this trend continues, the rate of unemployment will go beyond control shortly.  
	Moreover, unless the young people are getting involved with any sort of jobs or professions, they will not get their experience. So, at least to make them experienced in a particular field, the employers should pick them. Salary is not a fact for the fresh graduates, they are in need of a job to prove their skills and get some ideas on professional life. There were no jobs for a fresher like me in Pakistan a couple of years ago. When I completed my graduation from the University of Karachi, it was really difficult for me to find a job. Almost all the job advertisements required applicants having at least three years of professional experiences. If the authority fails to motivate companies to hire fresh graduates, many of them would become depressed and get involved in crimes.
	To conclude the topic, I think it is only the government who can intervene here to change the situation. Still, a large number of educated youths are seeking jobs. The scenario is almost the same around the world. If the youths are ignored in the job market, their moral degradation is a matter of time only. The corporations should make a balance while recruiting.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1901-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-812-some-governments-try-to-control-the-way-a-national-language-is-used",
Essay 639:
	Often governments try to control the use of any specific language at different levels and it begins from schools. Basically, the government wants to underscore on state language other than anything. Such policies have some advantages and demerits too. A comparative discussion is done in the following paragraphs.
	First of all, the government puts emphasis on the mother tongue of the state so that the kids could learn the state language effectively and communicate. As a result, the kids turn expert on national language. Further, as they are expert, communication is easier for them inside the national boundary. Actually, when kids are in schools and they are to learn several languages, it becomes difficult for them to cope with the words, dialects and other linguistic issues. Thereby, importance on certain language in school is reasonable. For instance, in most of the Asian countries, it is compulsory to study the mother tongue in elementary schools.
	On the other hand, teaching a certain language may create a sense of excessive dependency on that specific language. As a result, it may hamper their communication skills in a different perspective. They will lose confidence to communicate in the international environment.
	My 5-year old daughter, Samantha, is in her elementary school here in France. The school strictly forbids using English or any other language than French during the school hours. The intentions are respectable and kids are learning French perfectly. But at the same time, kids are losing their ability to communicate in English or in other international languages. Learning it in a later phase of life is less effective than learning at an early age, I think.
	Finally, after the aforesaid arguments, I believe adoption of such policies is ineffective. The ratio of demerits is almost equal to its benefits. So, if we justify the needs, the outcomes will be under satisfactory level. In a true sense, there are no advantages of this initiative at all, mere a waste of time. Hence, governments should deeply investigate the matter to make the right choice.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1900-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-811-there-are-many-ways-of-preventing-crime-that-are-much-better-than-prison",
Essay 640:
	It is believed that there are other effective and efficient methods for anticipating crimes, besides prison. To a certain point, I would agree with the statement, but each people have their own different personalities. Some people could be developed through social and humanistic approaches, but there are others who can only be disciplined through imprisonment.
	On the one hand, some people believe that the government should find other alternative ways in preventing crimes besides jail punishment. These people think that crimes could be prevented through humanistic approaches, such as giving campaigns and awareness of crimes through social media. And then the government could also prevent crimes through some holistic approaches, such as giving some religious seminars about the negative effect of crimes. These people believe that these humanistic methods are more effective in reducing the number of crimes than prison.
	On the other hand, it is a fact that every criminal has his/her different personality as each of them came from different cultures and backgrounds. Some people have been raised in a tough neighbourhood such as being raised in a conflict area or living in a poor and slum suburb. As a result, these people are familiar with violence and crimes. Humanistic and social approaches could not be implemented for these people, and imprisonment would be the most effective methods for them.
	In conclusion, it is said that there should be another way in preventing crimes besides prison. I personally believe that both methods should be combined. Governments should start with a more humanistic approach in preventing crimes by giving campaigns to their people. Once they found that the method is ineffective then they should change the method into warnings and fines. And if these methods still could not reduce the number of crimes, then governments should implement the imprisonment.
Essay 641:
	An act is considered a crime if its nature deviates from the prevailing laws though there are different aspects and types of crimes, I would like to brief up crimes which result in imprisonment. A person is imprisoned so that the living society is not harmed by his acts and also a chance that the inmate gets corrected.
	We see that prison certainly prevents crime but there are also certain better ways by which a person can be restrained from committing crimes. Firstly by maintaining a complete database of the doubtful citizens, this can be done by the police department because they possess the data of each and every individual and using this data his/her activities can be monitored and a close check can be kept on such suspicious persons. Secondly, counseling should be done to persons who are susceptible to commit crimes.
	There are many ways to prevent crimes apart from the above stated and they would certainly control the crime rate and correct the anti-social elements prevailing in our societies, for instance, a person commits robbery due to the want of money and if the victim opposes, the robber tries to harm the victim and steals the valuables.
	We see that general crimes are done due to hunger, want of money, poverty and unemployment. If the authorities have a check on the above-stated reasons and care is taken to check the situation of the person, no doubt then a majority of the crimes can be reduced.
	Apart from the above, there are certain crimes which are done in haste, these types of crimes can be controlled by delivering psychological counselling to such people and diverting their minds by inducing them to various other recreational activities like meditation, yoga and spiritual thinking etc.
	As far as my opinion is concerned it is good that a person should think twice before committing crime and such thoughts are to be inculcated into his mind and certainly there will be a drastic downfall in crime rate and subsequently reduction in state’s exchequer envisaged for handling prisons. But prisons are also necessary for handling heinous criminals and with prisons their effect on society can be controlled. There are many other ways to prevent crime but the need of such alternatives has to be debated on a broader scale before taking a decision.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1899-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-810-it-can-be-difficult-for-people-over-the-age-of-50-to-get-good-jobs",
Essay 642:
	Young people are often considered over the old ones by most organisations. The percentage of people losing their jobs due to their age as they advance beyond 50 is alarmingly more in some countries. Such problems are a matter of great concern and must be addressed for a better economic state of a nation.
Essay 643:
	It is certainly true that these days due to the advancements in the field of science and technology, most of the employers opt the fresh graduates to employ. However, aged people obviously have guts and accomplishments to climb the ladder of corporate hierarchy. It is high time, one must think of the experience and the positive outlook the elder people have towards any aspect. Nevertheless, there are apparent ways to solve it.
	To begin with, the main reasons could be the age factor, productivity, lowered work output, a way of thinking and mostly people over the age of 50 are usually Luddites. Today, all tasks primarily are being accomplished by using technology. Moreover, as the aged person generally may not be tech-savvy, this might be one possible reason for not recruiting them in good jobs. Furthermore, as a person becomes old, one would suffer from health implications which hinder the productivity at workplace. Nevertheless, it is undeniable fact that, some older people willingly do not want to work; they might want to spend their rest of the retired life with their children and grandchildren. Taking into considerations all the points it is clear why people over the age of 50 generally are not recruited in good jobs despite their experience.
	On the other hand, according to me, how much ever the technology develops, experience always stands ahead of the knowledge of novices. Hence, certain measures should be taken to address this moot issue. What I suggest is that the government can pay a crucial role by allotting employment allowances to the elder people. Next, the corporate companies perhaps, think to form an expert team comprising of aged people who could guide the younger employees to ensure the success of an organisation.
	To summarise, I believe that, there are several reasons behind this controversial issue and the possible consequences, but, by excluding these, the elder people should be given respect and a chance to prove their talent and experience.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1898-should-all-countries-have-laws-to-prevent-animals-being-used-in-entertainment",
Essay 644:
	Nowadays, it is a ubiquitous notion that manifold animals are being utilised in the bulk of circuses and other entertainment centres. Fortunately, in some countries, there are stringent rules about prohibiting such kind of activities. In this essay, I will accentuate several significant points and give my personal stance on issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1897-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-808-the-teaching-of-a-foreign-language-should-be-compulsory",
Essay 645:
	Skill in a foreign language is really handy and if it is initiated from an early age, according to some language experts, it would be more effective than any other methods. I agree that a foreign language should be made mandatory for primary schools for the reasons below.
	First of all, childhood learning lasts longer. Children are naturally quick learners. So, when they are engaged in to learn something newer, they turn wondering and consequently come to know about everything. The fact is similar to children in primary schools. When they will learn a new language in class, the language will offer an insight to them which makes them curious to know more about the people of other cultures or using that language. It creates a scope to explore the world which finally helps them to widen their knowledge.  
	Secondly, learning at a mature age is difficult. Usually, adults experience numerous obstacles while learning like they lack time, subjects appear difficult etc. So, learning turns ineffective and if it is a foreign language, the troubles rise more. My son, a primary grade student, was curious about Spanish. He had a course titled ‘How to learn Spanish’ in his school. So, he wanted to know more about people and culture of Spain and often tried to speak Spanish. But it was impossible for me to communicate in Spanish with him and thus I arranged some reading materials. He appeared on oral Spanish tests and did very well, and turned into a fluent Spanish speaker. But I am unable in my thirties to learn or speak a foreign language like my eight-year-old child.
	So, to conclude, I think if a foreign language learning is made compulsory in primary schools, it would help the kids to develop a standard communication skill, understanding of other culture and people; which in turn, will be quite effective in next phases of their lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1896-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-807-in-many-countries-television-shows-many-foreign-made-programmes",
Essay 646:
	Nowadays, foreign-made programs take their dominance in most countries, if not all. Undoubtedly, those programs bring about many negative effects. Chiefs among them are the adoption of bad habits and watching-addiction.  For several reasons, I agree that the imported entertainment negatively affects the cultures of countries.
	The first harm caused by imported foreign programs is the adoption of bad habits. In fact, foreign-made programs plant bad habits in their watchers which will be negatively reflected in their culture.  For example, my neighbour is so obsessed with watching foreign- programs and he and he always intends to imitate and adopt such bad habits. As a result, he began to drink Alcohol and use drugs.  Consequently, he caused many problems to his family in particular, and to his neighbours in general. This clearly shows us the danger the foreign programs may have on a community.
	To conclude, foreign –made programs are harmful to any community since they cause watching –addiction and bad habits adoption. To avoid above harms, governments are required to band foreign-made programs and replace them with local ones.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1895-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-806-hunting-animals-is-one-of-mankind-s-earliest-instincts",
Essay 647:
	Since the very beginning of the human civilisation, the creatures which lack in intelligence and power are being dominated by their counterparts. Apparently, since ages, human beings have been hunting animals and this trend has not stopped till date. Although contested by many, it is argued that the hunting should be banned with an immediate effect. The hunting is considered both as immoral and unethical practice. Hunting not only makes few species extinct but also affects the dairy industry of the country.
	Firstly, there are a few species which are already very limited in numbers. Thus, hunting such animals will make them extinct. Take tigers, for example. A survey conducted by the forest department of India shows that currently there are only 2000 odd tigers left in India, compared to 3500 odd in 2014. This exponentially decreasing count of tigers clearly shows that if hunting is not stopped, our next generation might just be left with only images of tigers.
	Moreover, the Indian economy is highly dependent on the dairy industry. Thus, any impact on this industry will directly affect the economy of the country. Indubitably, the act of hunting is doing no good for the dairy industry. For example, if the count of the milk producing cattle is decreased, automatically the production of dairy products would also be reduced. Thus, it is quite evident how a ban on hunting would catalyse the dairy industry, and in turn, the Indian economy.
	After analysing the above points, we can safely conclude that although, since ages human beings have kept themselves engaged in the act of hunting, the same has numerous detrimental effects as well. In order to effectively address those issues, the hunting should be stopped immediately. It is also believed that considering the negative impact of hunting, in the foreseeable future, individuals would refrain themselves from this act.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1894-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-805-internet-as-a-way-of-opening-up-new-communication",
Essay 648:
	During the last decades the number of individuals, that use the World Wide Web as a necessary tool of communication, has increased dramatically. Indeed, much more persons communicate with each other through the Net. It has been a worrying trend for those who enjoy the face-to-face interaction. However, others have seen it as a positive change.
	To begin with, the Web is a great way of communication between people. For example, only by using the Internet a person can talk with those who are living in a different part of the world. Thus, the distance does not matter for it. Additionally, it is possible to send an email to any person on the planet and that letter the receiver will get in a second after it has been sent. Therefore, the Net allows making the communication faster. By connecting to the Web from any place, a person can access any information available there. For instance, read a favourite newspaper or find a financial report of a listed company in ASX.
	On the other hand, while people with passion and enthusiasm using the Net, their time of social communication has significantly reduced. This trend has a negative effect on individual’s health and their life. For example, those who spend too much time on the Internet sit most of that time and, as a result, they may become obese. Moreover, this obesity might be a cause of diabetes in the future. Another drawback is that the internet users have the lackings of face-to-face interaction, which leads to lonely personal life without having a partner and children.
	To sum up, it is evident that the Internet has brought advantages as well as disadvantages to the person’s life. I firmly believe that individuals as a whole have faced much more benefits than drawbacks from using the Internet as a method of communication because an individual can balance the time they spend on the web and leave the time on other things.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1893-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-804-there-is-continuous-coverage-of-sport-on-television",
Essay 649:
	In these days, sports channels telecast almost all major sports events from across the world. It has become a cash cow of many television networks. At this juncture, many people, including talented ones, glue to the television. Though it brings about an extreme satisfaction to viewers, many youngsters fail to participate sports activities which are organised around.
	Firstly, sports events aired on the television drain a great deal of time of viewers. To be more precise, discussions and critics along with the sports episodes waste the valuable time of event watchers. By this problem, youngsters go to the ground once in a blue moon. Furthermore, many sports events such as test cricket serious call for many days to reach the final stage. A viewer who watches this kind of sports event on television hardly get time to participate other sports. To cite an example, world cup and cricket final telecasting time has become a holiday for many national and international stadium because of lack of participants.
	Secondly, television telecasts provide only theoretical knowledge of sports rather than practical knowledge. An unpracticed sportsman needs to pull his socks up to become a man of the match. In addition to that, a sportsman needs to hone his skills by continuous practical exposure. Moreover, they need to go the extra mile to become a national or international sports icon. Instead of paddle once own canoe, simply watch the sports event on the small screen does not facilitate to become a sports star. A recent sports magazine reports that the successful sportsman spent very less time to watch sports on television is the best epitome.
	By and large, I hold the view that the excess sports event watch on small screen badly affect the youngsters to come practical field. They enjoy events on the television as a piece of cake and they assume that the spot is a cake walk. Anybody really needs to become sports figure, they must put up with is practical sides.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1892-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-803-the-world-has-seen-an-enormous-increase-in-flights-for-leisure",
Essay 650:
	Due to globalisation, a paradigm shift of people's lifestyle and expansion of tourism and international commerce, cheap and frequent flights all around the world is quite common nowadays which offers both advantages and disadvantages. In this essay, I shall examine both positive and negative aspects of such flights before drawing a reasonable conclusion.
	With regards to advantages, frequent flights have made the air travel affordable for many and as a consequence, more people can enjoy the fast and flexible journey. Increasing flights also expand the tourism and business opportunities and thus indirectly creates more job opportunities. Moreover, people have more places to visit, venture in new business opportunities, avail advanced medical facilities in developed countries and learn more by travelling. The frequent travels, in a way, reduce the cultural gaps among people of different countries and bring nations together. Last but not least, many multinational companies can run their operations smoothly across cities due to easily-available air travel and this has a direct impact on creating more employment scopes.
	On the other hand, detrimental effects of the rapid increase in air travel cannot be ignored. The amount of air pollution it causes is quite alarming. A single flight emits a huge amount of carbon dioxide to the air contributing to the greenhouse effect. Furthermore, airports in cities hamper the peace of local people and increase the possibility of terrorist attacks.
	Many experts suggest that one way to check the negative consequences of increasing air travel is to impose more tax. Though this might seem a reasonable solution, I, however, disagree. More effective solutions like introducing eco-friendly jet fuel and tight security should be in place rather than increasing the tax which would only burden mass people to pay more for their travel.
	To conclude, ever-increasing air travel has some negative outcomes like air and sound pollution and threat to the national security. However, imposing a heavy tax is not a viable solution to this and cheap and frequent flights have facilitated people in many ways which are a timely demand of modern people.
Essay 651:
	People these days travel around the world for numerous purposes, and hence the number of flights is on the rise. But having the flights have both advantages and disadvantages as well. I will discuss the issue briefly in the following paragraphs and show my opinion whether imposing more taxes should be implemented or not.
	First of all, people take flights for some of the specific reasons. Speed is the key advantage here. It is only the air travel which provides the maximum speed and thus the travellers can save their valuable times. Besides, Comfort is another aspect of flights. When you will be on board on an aeroplane, you will feel comfortable like your own home. Further, when someone is on air, they are able to enjoy the attractive view of the ground which is a completely different experience.
	In opposite, there are some disadvantages have been found for the flights as well. Price is an important matter to consider. Often the prices of air tickets are higher and everyone is unable to bear such expensive tickets. Besides, some of the airliners charge for the snacks and meals or waters they serve during the trip. Sometimes, the journeys are tiresome as well and people suffer from jetlag. Place crash is a shocking issue for the passengers as there are fewer chances to survive a plane crash.
	Taxation on tickets is moderate now and I have experienced that recently. A couple of weeks ago, I travelled to New York from Massachusetts by a local airliner. They charged me 15% tax of the entire ticket value. So, I think this is moderate and if the tax is increased, it would be difficult for ordinary people like us to have the air travels in our need.
	To conclude, I think that the advantages of flights are more than disadvantages it owns. So, people should take the chance of air travel considering its benefits.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1891-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-802-what-benefits-has-the-world-got-from-space-exploration",
Essay 652:
	The world population has reached over 7 billion and the number is increasing every day. It is often cited that mother planet, Earth, will not be able to accommodate the overwhelming number of people in the future and we will have to settle on a different planet. If this is the case then space exploration is the solution to this issue. What we see as a plot of science fiction movie today will be a reality tomorrow and I believe that human will live on other planets in the future.
	To list down the advantages of space exploration, we have to mention the knowledge we learn from it first. Space exploration has made it possible for us to understand the pattern of the universe and the solar system. Without knowing the universe, human will never be able to fully understand the Earth. Thus space exploration is an important part of knowing who we actually are. Knowledge acquired from space exploration has been proven to challenge our existing perspective of life and has enriched human capabilities. Many inventions and advancement in technology and theoretical science have been possible only because of our activity in outer space.  
	Secondly, it’s been around 50 years of human activity in outer space and this has improved the life on Earth. The first satellite was designed to study the space environment has opened the door of many possibilities like satellite communication, advancement in weather forecasting, global positioning and so on.
	Thirdly, though space exploration we have learned many aspects of addressing global challenges. It also makes us better suited to prevent catastrophic events like asteroid strikes and similar events. The joint venture on space exploration increases diplomatic relationship among nations and increases the international preparedness to address any issue arises on Earth. The future exploration will surely bring many benefits towards the development of nations and even settling on a different planet.
	The world population is already beyond the carrying capacity of our planet and the predicted global warming and meltdown of polar ice will diminish many highlands. This will only leave us one choice, to settle down on a different planet that can support life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1890-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-801-schools-to-teach-every-young-person-how-to-be-a-good-parent",
Essay 653:
	Few people are of opinion that it is the responsibility of the schools to hone the skills of children. I disagree with the notion that the educational institutions should be responsible for developing the children into good parents in the future. This essay will discuss the reasons for this and the requirements to be a skilled parent.
	It is of paramount importance that the centre of learning should give priority in teaching the academic subjects rather than the parental role .Even though the children are made aware of their future role as parents and how to play that effectively, it would in no way help in fetching a job, a successful career or attaining financial stability in life which are the most important benefits to be reaped out of education.
	Another reason is perhaps, it would not be an effective method since the teenagers might not have the maturity to understand the responsibilities of a parent. This is because, they have to connect the happenings in their family to the subjects taught in the school, which is again too much strain for a child. In this way, it can be argued that teaching the role of parents in schools would not be pragmatically fruitful unless it is intuitively assimilated from their parents and family members.
	In regard to the competence of a mother or a father, there are several things to be considered; first and foremost is the abundance of love and care, secondly strict rules to discipline their life, thirdly responsibility, fourthly doing things that the children would find inspirational and lastly to be able to educate them. What’s more is expertness in handling finance so that the children can have a better healthcare, food, education and relaxed life.
	To conclude, the academic subjects should be concentrated and taught in schools, as it had been until now since it is the most integral part education. This is not only because of the mindset of juveniles but also to extirpate such classes and let them learn from their own parents during the course of life.
Essay 654:
	Some individuals believe that to be a good parent, adolescent must be taught about parenting in school. However, whether or not this parenting class in school is effective, it is still debatable. Nonetheless, personally, I agree that every teenager must learn how to be a good parent in school based on the importance of parenting class to present skills needed by teenagers.
	To begin with, parenting class is considered as rudimentary need before entering family life and therefore, it should be given to students in their school. Several preliminary studies found that good parents can affect children’s attitude and behaviour later. By attending parenting classes, young people will be supplied abundant skills needed of how to educate and grow children well. As the result, young children can be more ready and understand how to care children, can be more aware of some menaces may be found during family life and can bring up children appropriately thus they can have good attitude and morale. By attending these classes they can also learn the importance of having a family and sacrifices their parents made for them.
	Furthermore, several skills must be adopted by adolescent before being parents. For instances, how to care baby bruise, how to be a good new mum, how to pick proper supplementation for children, etc. new mother had to encounter some conditions of the baby bruise, and this condition requires prompt treatment despite offspring and maternal safety. Starting breastfeeding to infant also needs skills in order to keep the breastfeeding healthy for baby as well as to select complementary food for children to support growth. These skills can be developed through parenting class in school.
	All in all, school is a place to educate pupils in every part of life including parenting class for students to help them more understand their duties of how to be a good mother/father as being a good parent needs various parental skills.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1889-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-800-people-continuing-their-education-after-school-has-increased",
Essay 655:
	Throughout the 21st century, a lot of universities have been built across the globe. It has become extremely easy for the students to get admission in universities to pursue higher studies in the area of their interest. I agree that when more students attain degree means that it will bring a positive impact on the society.
	Firstly, students have the flexibility to choose a course when universities provide multiple courses, especially new ones, based on the course subject, fees or duration. For example, a financially backwards person can opt for a low budget course and still become a graduate. Thus, universities can empower the society.
	Secondly, finding a breakthrough in a career is easy when a person has some specialised skills. Moreover, there are many industries facing resource shortage. For instance, as per the report published by the Week magazine dated 2th September 215, illustrates that hundred percent of the students in the hotel management course are being a job offer in their final year, by the industries requiring them. Therefore, the special skills universities benefit both students and industries.
	Finally, a sense of public awareness is created among the citizens, which results in the decrease of crime rate as well as improvement in the behaviour of the people, due to the knowledge gained in their courses. For example, this decade crime rate has drastically reduced by 10 percent compared to the previous one. Therefore, by having more education, the earth can become a better and safe place to live.
	In conclusion, education can bring in a myriad of benefits to the society. It is the duty of the respective governments to ensure that their citizens are well educated and support the needy. The more choices on universities and area of studies in those universities undoubtedly have many positive impacts.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1888-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-799-in-many-countries-insufficient-respect-is-shown-to-older-people",
Essay 656:
	Respect shown to senior citizens is often considered by many as an important indicator of a civilised society and yet this is on the decline in many countries. In my opinion, lack of proper teaching at home and a paradigm shift towards a materialistic life are the reason for this trend. This trend can bring some negative consequences in our society which would be outlined in this essay.   
	In regard to the declining respects for elderly people, the family bonding and parents teaching methods at home are to be blamed. The family value and bond are no longer important to the young generation these days. They are not entirely responsible for this social debasement as parents nowadays are too busy to teach their children morality. On top of that, young generation in this era is more occupied with materialistic possessions than reading history and learning about their traditions and cultures. As a result, they fail to understand how important it is to show respect to other members of the society, especially senior citizens. To illustrate an example, one of my classmates, Tony, was raised in a nuclear family and without his father. When he visited our house, he had no idea that my grandparents could live in our family. Certainly, he would not know how to spend time with people over 60 years old!
	Among the negative consequences of this trend, the most severe one is the moral degradation of youth. Since they find it unnecessary to show proper respect to elder people, they will soon forget to respect other human beings. Moreover, they will fail to teach their next generation anything about mutual respect and family value, they will suffer even more when they become old. Finally, as a whole, the society would have selfish members who would not be able to maintain a social harmony.
	To conclude, the society we live in is the contribution os the senior citizens and that is why the young generation should show their respect and gratitude to them. The lack of respect towards the elderly is a great concern and to mitigate this problem, parents should teach their children morality and importance or family bonds.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1887-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-798-why-is-stress-such-a-problem-in-the-modern-world",
Essay 657:
	Nowadays stress has become a serious problem than it was in the past. Over the world, many different diseases are caused by stress. In today’s world, some people ask themselves why stress is such a big issue as well as how to reduce it. This essay will discuss the causes to stress related illnesses and solutions to deal with this problem.
	In the highly competitive environment stress is an illness that experienced approximately everyone because of modern tension and pressure whereas before individuals had fewer issues to think about. For example, our generation works longer hours and bear a heavy workload in comparison with the past generations. The business competition will be more serious in the future and as a result, more and more people will suffer from stress-related issues. The increasing competition and challenges in every field of life, lack of family and social bonding, increasing expenses, political instability, international tension, environmental pollution, longer working hours, high expectation and dependency of technology everywhere are some of the main reasons the stress related problems are so high these days.
	In comparison with the past when people did not have to think about the existence of stress, nowadays it has become a global problem. People had the same diseases in the past but they did not know for sure what the causes were. Recently the cause was found – the stress which is a serious threat to the wellbeing of human and leads to many negative symptoms that exhaust a person’s body and mind. With the less population, the competition was lesser and the environment was better in the past. That’s why they had comparatively less stress in their lives.   
	The key to a stress-free life is being contended with whatever we have. If we can be happy with whatever we have got and aspire for a bright future, we will definitely have less stress related issues. Everyone must maintain a balanced work and social life in order to lessen the amount of stress related problems they suffer. Getting engaged in physical activities and hobbies can be another solution to address this. The employers should reduce the working hours and arrange other facilities to reduce the amount of pressure the employees feel in the workplace. Our social and family bonding can also help us to fight this problem to a great extent. 
	There is no doubt that over the last few years stress has become one of the major reasons for serious illnesses such as heart diseases, asthma, obesity, diabetes and headaches. For this reason, ideas like relaxation centres, aromatherapies and massage centres have emerged and they can help people to reduce their mental pressure. Doing exercises, communicating with friends and families or organising a hobby will make them happier and busier in the daily routine.  
	To sum up, life has become more stressful for our generation than the past generations and thoughtful measures could be taken to address this issue including strong relationship, engagement in activities, and working smarter than working harder and for long hours.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1886-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-797-why-are-more-people-eating-fast-food",
Essay 658:
	Fast Food as the name indicates the availability of food to eat in a jiffy. The main reason for the flourish and success of fast food is the change in the lifestyle and the competitive environment prevailing in the society. Let us evaluate the success of the fast food in detail and the ways to kerb it by heeding to the sayings of the doctors, nutritionists and clinical experts.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1885-many-old-buildings-are-protected-by-law-because-they-are-part-of-a-nation-s-history",
Essay 659:
	It is a common thing that governments will protect some of the historical buildings in their country, but some people disagree with it. They believe that these old buildings should be demolished and replaced with new ones, as the demand for properties is increasing rapidly these days. I believe that maintaining some of the historical buildings is an important thing and a combination between classic and modern buildings in the city would be an advantage for the city itself.
	For a number of reasons, maintaining historical building is an important thing. Firstly, these historical buildings have become the witness of some of the country's significant and monumental events. For example, White House had been the witness of how the American had obtained its independence from the British, and how slavery had been ceased by Abraham Lincoln. Secondly, many old buildings contain a priceless value of art, as some buildings were designed by famous architects or painted by some legendary painters such as the church in Rome which was painted by Michelangelo. Therefore it is important for the government to preserve old buildings.
	Many cities have successfully combined classic and modern buildings in their master plan. As they have realised that this combination would make the city become more attractive. In cities such as in London, Brussels and Paris, people would commonly see that many historical buildings are preserved as museums or become government offices. Standing to these historical buildings are new and modern buildings which have a futuristic design. Many people believe that the combination has made these cities become unique and attractive for tourists. As a result, it has boosted the city tourism industry and created a lot of job opportunities for the local people.
	In conclusion, many countries are protecting old buildings, as they believe that preserving and maintaining the buildings is an essential thing. Although some people think that old buildings should be replaced with new ones as the demand for properties has increased significantly, I personally believe that some of the old buildings should be preserved, as they have historical and artistic values. Besides that, the combination of old and modern buildings would make the city become more unique and it would attract many tourists.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1884-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-795-main-influence-on-young-people-s-diet-is-advertising-rather-than-family",
Essay 660:
	With an emerging impact of advertisements, young people's diet habit is a concerning issue as the number of overweight children is on the rise. While some people are convinced that adverts targeting the young residents to shape their preferences of food have higher influence than family and friends. I, however, disagree with this notion.
	To begin with, we are living in a world where adverts are all around us and their influence on young generation is more severe than adults. Advertisements, especially those targets teenagers and related to food and beverage, spend a huge amount of money to allure them to a better living standard which are, most of the cases, lies. Consequently, young people are trapped and prefer fast food than home-made menus. For instance, a recent survey conducted on college students in my city revealed that they prefer pizza, subway sandwich and burger than the foods their mums prepare at home. Further studies explained that those students have little conscious of the balanced diet and are exposed to TV and online advertisements.                  
	Having said that, family and friends have a greater influence on a teenager's eating habit. A family has a greater role in shaping a child's food intake habit and scientific studies prove that our diet habit is deeply rooted in the type of food we eat in our childhood. Thus, if a teenager has a bad eating habit, the family is to blame for that. On top of that, when a child starts making friends, he is significantly get influenced by his friends eating and drinking habit. To illustrate, based on a recent research published in the magazine 'Healthy Living', more than 70% school going teenagers try to mimic the diet habit of their friends who they spend time with. This statistics clearly reveal that our family members and friends have more influence on our choices of foods and drinks than the advertisements we are exposed to.
	To conclude, food habit is a significant part of our life as it defines who we become and how healthy, both physically and psychologically, we would be in the future. Advertisements, to a certain extent, have an impact on young people's diet, but family and friends have an even greater role.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1883-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-794-some-people-regard-work-as-the-most-important-thing-in-life",
Essay 661:
	Work-life balance is a concept that emphasises both the professional and personal life and in my opinion, personal interests are as much important as the works are. I believe that we should focus both on our career and hobbies to maintain a balance in our life and to lead a happy and meaningful life.
	In regards to work or career, I think that it defines who we are and how we contribute to the society we live in. Perfectly executing our job responsibilities would ensure a steady career growth and a contentment in our life. It is quite reasonable that when we find our works interesting, we can excel in our performance as we work passionately. Undeniably, devotion on our jobs would bring out the best in us and let us reinvent our hidden potentials. To cite an example, many scientists, throughout the history, have completely devoted themselves to their work and have brought marvellous invention for the rest of the humanity. Thus to a certain group of people, work is far more important than any other thing in life.
	In contrast, another group of people find their hobbies and leisure activities more interesting and focus more on these activities than their career and work. I believe, to a certain extent, they are prudent to emphasise more on things they feel attracted to as we have got only one life to live and being happy and contented is the mantra of life. However, their priority in life often lead to negligence in professional life and as a consequence, they suffer from economic disaster in later life.
	To conclude, we are the ultimate architect of our life and how we lead our life would define our future. An intelligent person would focus both on work and hobby as he knows the work-life balance is the key to a joyful and prosperous life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1882-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-793-movement-away-from-written-exams-to-more-practical-assessment",
Essay 662:
	The written exam was the only possible evaluation method in the past and thanks to the technological advancements for numerous other techniques to assess a student's academic performance nowadays. It is quite obvious that schools and other educational and training institutions are opting for a combination of different assessment methods and this shift has both advantages and demerits, which I shall examine in this essay.
	To start with the advantages, practical approaches to evaluating students not only consider the overall learning and understanding of a student but also the accuracy and depth of their knowledge. For instance, in a paper based exam, a student can easily memorise the answers and perform well in written test; but when he is asked to demonstrate the knowledge his knowledge in a lab, his memorise-and-answer ability would help him a little. In practical exams, students who have really learned the lessons would pass with flying colours. Furthermore, assessment methods like interviews, group assignments, presentations and lab experiments prepare pupil to face the challenges in professional life.  
	Turning to the disadvantages of practical assessment, many students can cheat the evaluation process and pass the exam with a little devotion to study. For instance, a recent survey conducted on students in five different colleges revealed that students prefer group assignments, online presentations and lab experiments than written exam as they need to study more for the later one. On top of that, sometimes, teachers favour particular students and mark some students poorly due to personal reasons and the authority has little to do to reassess this marking scheme at a later date.
	To conclude, genuine assessment of a student is quite an essential task for the schools and a combination of evaluation process should be implemented. Practical assessment offers many benefits and subsequently prepare students for the future challenges in both academic and professional environment.
Essay 663:
	One of the burning issues in today’s world is the accurate method of evaluating students with practical tests instead of traditional written ones. There are some debates over the more usefulness and precision between these two methods and in this essay, I shall discuss both the benefits and negative consequences of this trend.  
	To begin with, it is widely accepted that the technology has dramatically changed the way we teach and evaluate students. So, in order to follow new and improved developments and methods, we need new techniques in teaching. Therefore, the new trend of evaluating are needed in order that old ones can no longer assess how much students understand their courses. There is a convincing evidence that written exams are time-consuming and cannot illustrate student’s knowledge correctly since some people only memorise everything very fast, but eventually, they forget everything even faster.
	Having said that, it must not be ignored that it is actually difficult to score students by their performance even if the practical approach of evaluating is followed. It also depends on the perception of examiners and having experienced teachers in our educational institutes is also a challenge. In addition, more time and money have to be spent on practical tests with fixed criteria of grading. Thus it is the obvious reason why traditional methods have been kept its popularity till now. Additionally, in some courses such as history and so on there are no sufficient requirements on practical assessment, hence traditional methods can estimate appropriately and in areas like this, a combination of exam system should exist.
	Overall, despite some drawbacks of practical tests, it has become one of the main procedures of evaluating students recently but written exams are also widely used all around the world. I believe that both types of exams are required for investigating students skills and abilities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1881-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-792-latest-technology-for-home-entertainment-are-having-a-negative-impact",
Essay 664:
	Like many other technological tools, modern home entertainment devices have both positive and negative aspects. However, overall, this has far more advantages than demerits and if not overused, technologies like the high-speed internet and smart TV can be  great learning tools for the people, especially young.
	To begin with, powerful internet connection, smart TV, gaming console etc. all have entertaining as well as educational values. If not misused, young generation can learn from these sophisticated and advanced devices. The merits or demerits of these devices lie on the parental guidance and the way they are utilised. For instance, if a child watches TV programmes all day long, it would negatively affect his eyes, health and academic performance. However, if a teenager watches educational videos and programmes on YouTube and channels like the NetGeo or  Discovery, he would definitely learn many new things.
	Another key point to remember, people need entertainment in order to lead a stress-free and happy life. The lack of entertainment facility often attributes towards the moral degradation and this is quite alarming. Hence, people must have ways to spend some quality times on their own. Modern tools like computers, tabloid PCs and smart TVs fill the gap and allow busy people find ways to enjoy their leisure time. Considering this, I would like to suggest that latest technology for the personal and family entertainment is rather a blessing.
	To conclude, the home entertainment technology itself does not have the ability to bring detrimental outcomes for people. Rather how we use them defines how useful or harmful those devices are and that is why we should be more sensible to use those technologies even if they are meant to entertain or educate us.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1880-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-791-museum-and-historical-sites-are-mainly-visited-by-tourists",
Essay 665:
	Historical places have long been a staple destination for tourists recently. However, in recent years there is not an inclination for local people to visit these sites and these places are always packed with tourists. There are several reasons for this problem and various measures can be taken by governments to improve this situation.
	The high cost of entrance fee and monotonous atmosphere are the main causes of discouragement of local people to go to museums. From an economic standpoint, this amount might be desirable for the tourists who choose travelling and they are aware of this cost. However, indigenous people are less likely to spend for visiting the place that they have already known what they expect to see. At the same time, a boring ambience of historical sites is another reason. Since local have basic knowledge about the history of their country, there is nothing interesting in persuading them to visit there. Therefore, these places can be found a waste of money and time entirely.
	Encouraging locals and lower admission fee are the keys to solving this problem. One should note that it is governments' responsibility to put forward so as to boost the proficiency of historical sites. They can encourage people of the country to visit these places and transfer their observation to the next generation. People find these places more enjoyable if especial events and festivals are held there. Besides, imposing especial offer, discounts and free entrance at weekend, for instance, would be another way to attract the attention of local residents.
	To sum up, lack of local represents will only address if several steps such as rewarding local and making museums enjoyable taken into consideration.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1879-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-790-the-world-is-consuming-natural-resources-faster-than-they-can-be-renewed",
Essay 666:
	In today’s world exploitation and exploration of natural resources, at its peak for the sake of personal benefit.  This is an alarming situation and there is dire need of taking precautionary measures. Despite this, I do not agree to some extent to limit the use of modern products and encourage companies to make long lasting products. By doing so, we are compromising safety issues and depriving people to take benefits from the modern and advanced technology.
	There is no doubt that modern products are designed in accordance with latest technology and safety measures. For instance, today’s cars are much better in performance and more secure than older cars, as a new car has the state of the art features such as the airbag, camera and the internet connectivity etc. Those functions make cars more reliable and durable and comfortable for its users. Additionally, being a part of the modern and diverse world, one should be equipped with modern products to create ease and comfort in their life.
	Durable and long lasting products will create discrimination among people, as such products require huge amount for its development and would not be in reach of poor people. Moreover, this will have negative impacts on new and inexperienced companies to develop kind of products that demand enormous funds and time. Thus, it will cause unemployment as not too many businesses would able to bear huge expenses.
	Frequently changing the car or other luxury items by rich is a negative tendency and the government take steps to aware them, but it would not be successful to a large extent. The government ultimately won’t be able to prevent rich people from doing so. In this regards, other alternatives like recycling products whenever possible, imposing more tax on luxury items etc. could be more effective.  
	To sum up, I would like to say that government should come up with pragmatic approaches to devising an alternative to natural resources than confiding people not to use latest and modern products.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1878-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-789-public-transport-is-essential-but-problematic",
Essay 667:
	It is true that using of various transport systems, supported by the government, including the public transportation is extremely important for many people living in urban or rural areas. Undeniably, citizens have faced numerous issues when it comes to commuting between their home and destination, including accessibility or quality. While public transports are very important to reduce the number of private cars running in the cities, it has some disadvantages as well. I personally believe that these problems can be addressed with some pragmatic solutions.
	The first important factor why the public are not interested in using buses or trains is the lack of availability. Unfortunately, many inhabitants living outside of central cities cannot usually find adequate buses or monorails. In particular, in the Northshore areas of Vancouver city of Canada, individuals cannot easily travel by Skytrain because there is no any train station there. Had the government of BC extended this type of transport, more dwellers would have accessed it. As a result, to find better solutions to this issue, public transportation must equally be reachable to all citizens living even in remote areas.
	Another reason is the poor quality this method of transport has. Obviously, in many highly populated poor countries, this type of transportation has considerably deteriorated. As a prime example, in Iran, the lifetime of some buses backs to over thirty years or more, and their capacity is not as much as used to be. Many passengers have to stand on their feet all over their travelling because of the shortage of spaces, and there is no any specific seat for children or equipped facilities for elders which many modern buses have. To address it, the state administrations are better to increase the budget of public transport and renew the old buses or trains, which have endangered people’s safety.
	The public buses in many areas do not have fixed timetable and people have to wait for a long to get on a bus. Apart from that, privacy is another concern for people. When public transportation system is very effecting in reducing congestion and air pollution, these two aspects often deter people to use them. Improving the service quality and imposing strict rules by the authority could be an effective solution to this problem.
	To sum up, public transportation is being used by many of citizens in each country though who can afford private cars usually avoids public transportation. However, it is important to encourage people to use public transportation more to reduce the traffic jam and pollutions. From my perspective, to solve the problems like quality or accessibility, transport authorities have to increase the number of public vehicles in all over the country and replace the old transport systems with the modern ones with better facilities and regulations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1877-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-788-it-is-very-important-to-get-a-university-education",
Essay 668:
	While some opine that university education is a must, others, however, emphasise the need for vocational training and practical skills more. No doubt skills on practical works like plumbing, painting, repairing, automobiles etc. are essential for the young generation to start a career early, but university education offers something more and creates a better future generation. This essay will discuss both aspects and point out my opinion.
	To begin with, university education has a paramount importance in shaping someone's ability, perspective and knowledge. That is why a person is thought to be prepared to start a career or open a business only when he completes his tertiary education. Many organisations, for instance, seek employees who have university degrees and research indicates that university graduates are more adept at learning new things in the corporate world, taking challenges, leading a team and bringing innovations. Thus taking up trade education or courses instead of getting admitted to a college or university would build up a generation who would be skilled in some particular fields, no doubt, but not ready to lead the country by contributing in a more efficient manner in their respective job or business fields. In many countries, such as India, a plumber, electrician or a painter have no scope to enhance their career in prestigious corporations or ever become a white collar employee. Furthermore, the society does not consider them as skilled employees since they do not have the necessary education to excel. Thus taking up university education in those countries is the only option to gather knowledge and secure a good career.
	With regards to the trade courses to have a skilled workforce in a country, I believe that only a few developed countries should encourage their young population to start their career in such fields where they can have decent jobs. For instance, Finland already has this educational setup and they are quite successful. Furthermore, skilled people will never be unemployed and thus would contribute to the national economy at an early age.
	To conclude, though having trade related courses and vocational education to start a career early and to maintain a social skill balance us a good option, I believe that university education is far more beneficial. It should be ensured by the government that deserving students get university education though there is no harm in including some trade-related training courses in university to make them more skilled.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1876-some-people-choose-to-eat-no-meat-or-fish",
Essay 669:
	Vegetarians tend to avoid consuming meat and fish on the purpose of keeping body health and concerning on environmental issue. Both purposes will be discussed in this essay as well as provide several convincing explanations.
	Vegetarians tend to consider health factors to stop consuming meat and fish because those kinds of food sources affect the blood tension of those who suffer from chronic disease such as cancer, obesity, etc. Other reasons from a health point of view of people become vegetarian because they need to lose weight or to have a better body shape. Moreover, choosing to consume vegetables rather than meat or fish becomes a trend to keep the body healthy.
	On the other hand, being a vegetarian is one of the ways to protest the policy of the government or criminal action against environmental issues such as cruel animal slaughtering, fish-bombing, etc. Moreover, being vegetarian is believed as the best solution for keeping the balance of the ecosystem among humans and animals.
	However, another reason not to eat meat or fish is related to ethical concern on how there are several values or rules in a certain community that forbid to eat both food sources. They believe that animals are just like the human being that should be respected as well as conserve their lives.
	To conclude, vegetarians who consider health issues and environmental issues, as well as ethical concern, have their own reasons. In addition, both views are merely positive to keep the body health individually as well as to conserve the sustainability of animal lives globally.
Essay 670:
	It is a fact that several groups of people prefer not to consume any kinds of meat and fish, as they believe that being vegetarian bring many benefits for their health and for the world as a whole. To a certain extent, I would agree with the opinion, but I think that people should also consume meat and fish in a proportional portion as they contain rich ingredients that are needed by human’s body.
	For a number of reasons, some people choose not to eat fish or meat. Firstly, it is believed that several types of meats and fish contain fats which are considered unhealthy for the human’s body. People who consume those kinds of meat or fish have a higher risk of cardiovascular diseases such as heart attack or cholesterol. Secondly, as the demand for meat and fish increases, it would have a negative impact on the environment. The increasing number of farming activities would require bigger areas, which might reduce the number of forest areas.  And then with over-exploitation of fishing activities, several types of fishes would extinct and it would make the sea ecosystem become imbalance.
	On the other hand, many food scientists have found out that there are several types of vitamins and proteins that could only be obtained from meat and fish. For examples, Salmon fish generates a certain type of oils which are beneficial for our blood circulation process. And then, red meat is needed as the source of nutrition for the human’s brain. However, the main problem of those who consume meat and fish is that most of them consume the food in an inappropriate portion. As a consequence, many of them have problems with obesity or diabetic.
	In conclusion, it is true that some people believe that being a vegetarian is healthier than meat consumer, and it would also give a positive effect on the environment. To a certain point, I would agree with it, but meats and fish also contain certain types of nutrition that are needed by our body. I do believe that if we could balance the consumption of meat, fish and vegetable, it would make our body become healthier than the vegetarian.
Essay 671:
	It is generally believed that there are many health and environmental benefits to vegetarianism. While I do agree with this view, I do not think that vegetarianism is for everyone.
	The consumption of animal products certainly has some health consequences. It hurts the environment as well. Some studies have shown that vegetarians tend to live longer than their meat or fish-eating counterparts. The environmental impacts of non-vegetarianism are even worse. Countless animals are raised, abused and slaughtered to fulfil the demand for meat and fish worldwide. Framing livestock is one of the major causes of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide. If we can reduce the consumption of meat, the need for raising more animals also reduces. As a result, the land that is being used to raise them can be altered to grow vegetables which in turn produce clean air for the whole planet. Obviously, cutting down on the consumption of animal products benefits the whole world.
	However, meat and fish are an integral part of many cuisines; therefore, being a vegetarian is not an option in many regions of the world. To illustrate, sushi is the most popular Japanese delicacy and without the addition of its main ingredient, fish, sushi will not be complete. Meat consumption is particularly common in cold countries. There are also some regions where it is difficult to grow vegetables and cereals. Furthermore, fish and meat are excellent sources of proteins and some fatty acids crucial for good health. For this season, meat consumption is essential for people engaging in strenuous physical activities. Being vegetarian, for example, is not a viable option for a bodybuilder or an athlete.
	In conclusion, even though there are advantages to vegetarianism, I believe that this lifestyle is not for everyone. Even so, in my opinion, everyone should make an effort to cut down on their consumption of animal foods. That way they can improve their health and save the planet from tons of greenhouse gases.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1875-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-786-given-the-opportunity-women-can-be-successful-managers",
Essay 672:
	People have different opinions about leadership in a corporation or government institution. A group of people believe that managerial and similar high-level positions should only be occupied by men, while others think that women could also be  good leaders. The following essay will discuss both views, but I personally believe that competency is the most important aspect in term of leadership.  
	For a number of reasons, many people believe that men should be the leaders in companies or government bodies. Firstly, based on the psychological approach, men use ratio when they make decisions. Therefore they decisions would be more logical and reasonable. Secondly, men are the better decision makers when they have to make a sudden or urgent choice. Again certain jobs demand responsibilities that could be better performed by man than women.  
	On the other hand, another group of people believe that women should also be given the chance to occupy important positions in a company. They believe that leaders should not be elected based on genders, but based on their competency. They also believe that leader is not purely a natural gift, as leadership could also be learned. Some of the examples would be Margaret Thatcher who successfully led England in the eighties and Hillary Clinton who became one of the ministers in the USA and now running for the presidential election.  These women have shown that they have all the competencies of becoming a good leader.  
	In conclusion, some people still believe that gender would have a significant effect on leadership, but I disagree with the statement.  I personally believe that competency and experience of the individual, be it a man of woman is the most important aspect of choosing a leader in an organisation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1874-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-785-children-no-longer-need-to-develop-handwriting-skills",
Essay 673:
	With the marvel of technological progress, the process of learning and teaching have changed to a great extent and the modern children, most of the time, use computers to compose their essays, presentation and homework. One group of people thus think that handwriting skills for children are no longer relevant while many others disagree. In this essay, I shall discuss both aspects and include my verdict.
	To begin with, education sectors and schools in many countries have embraced the computer and the internet technology and the way of teaching and learning is no longer the same as it was in the past. For example, one of my nephews, George, who is 4 years old, have learned the alphabets, colours, digits and many rhymes from the internet which was unimaginable even in our era. University students prepare their assignments and thesis on a computer, a plagiarism checking software initially reviews it, the teacher assesses the answers on a computer and this process goes on with the help of technology. Professionals like journalists, writers, bloggers, programmers, bankers and so on, no longer need to write manually as computers are there for them. With more corporations going digital, the need for handwriting is shrinking rapidly. Furthermore, may of the standardised exams have their computerised version and this eliminates the needs for an excellent handwriting skill and demands the skill of typing on swipe a digital device like the computer.
	According to the second group of people, handwriting is still essential and no matter how much dependant we become on technology, it will always be a handy ability for a person. For instance, a computer literate would still be considered ignorant if he can not write something on a paper. This group of people also opine that handwriting ability enables someone to excel in his academic studies and exams. Though some exams have become digitalised most others require us to write on a paper using a pen or pencil. Thus to present our skills we still need the handwriting skills. Last but not least, use of the technology requires electric power, devices like computers and the internet connections which are yet to be available in many parts of the world. For students in such areas, handwriting skill is a must.
	To conclude, a thorough analysis of the topic reflects that handwriting is still an essential skill and parents, for this reason, should focus on developing this ability among their children from and early stage.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1873-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-784-information-has-become-widely-available-to-the-general-public",
Essay 674:
	With the rapid development of internet technology, people have access to various kinds of information these days. Some people believe that it brings so many benefits for the public, while others disagree with it. The following essay will discuss the pros and the cons but I believe that it has more advantages than the disadvantages.
	It is true that with the existence of online technology, a vast amount of information has been connected together and this information is open to the public. A group of people believe that this development has negative effects on individuals and societies. As the internet could provide any information to anyone, people could misuse it. One of the examples, a terrorist could learn how to make bombs through the web, as some websites provide this kind of information. Consequently, the number of terrorist attacks has increased rapidly in the past few years. Another example is that some websites are providing illicit videos or violence scenes to public, which would have physiological effects on children and teenagers.
	On the other hand, another group of people believe that the Internet and open information technology have brought many benefits for human kinds. Firstly, with the easy access to information, it helps students and scholars in doing their paper works and assignments. With the existence of various search engines such as Bing and Google, they could search any data that are correlated to their tasks. Secondly, people could use the online technology for learning. Many educational institutions are providing online courses these days, which help people who are busy or live in remote areas but enthusiastic in learning. Again, the internet also provides job postings which are available for the public. It is a fact that websites such as indeed or jobsdb have helped millions of job seekers in finding a job. Finally, internet technology not only provides information to public but also bring them together. Thus social websites help people learn new information and protest any event they do not like. Information is power and when people are connected with it, they will become more educated, informed and cautious and an educated and informed generation would be able to build a better world.  
	In conclusion, with the existence of internet technology, people could have access to various kinds of information these days. It is undeniable that the development has some of its advantages and disadvantages to our life and society. I personally believe that it has more benefits for us rather than the drawbacks, as long as we use it for positive activities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1872-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-783-larger-proportions-of-people-live-and-work-in-other-countries",
Essay 675:
	Yes, it is true that a large percentage of people today live and work in other nations compared to the past. However, it doesn’t imply that  people would be able to move freely between nations in the future and countries will be borderless.
	Just forget about the free commute between nations, it is even not possible within a country. Let us take the example of India. There are many youngsters who leave their native towns to work in metro cities to earn a good living for their family. However, they are not readily accepted by the city. The priority is always given to local residents who have knowledge of local people, traditions, and what works well in a particular city.
	The outsiders are considered only when there is a need. When it comes to acceptance, let us get back to the time of financial crisis. At that time, the first people to lose their jobs were the people who came to work in the U.S. from other nations.
	The various nations are implementing even more restrictive and stringent immigration policies. Such measures are being imposed at precisely the same time when migration to other nations has become an increasingly vital part of people’s plans for getting access to life resources.
	Before even we think of no borders, it is essential to eradicate the other problems related to immigration. The spousal visa holders, renewable working permits and other temporary visas that face several challenges are often suspended in future with people stuck in devastating consequences.
	To conclude, due to the prevailing cultural and economic diversities, and safety issues, the borders will continue to exist in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1871-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-782-important-factor-in-reducing-world-poverty",
Essay 676:
	It is believed that changing people’s perspective and way of thinking to advance a country's culture and habit is an essential factor in reducing the worldwide poverty problem. However, other people disagree with it and think that increasing trade activities between countries and regions are more important. This essay will discuss in details about the two opinions, but from my point of view, I do believe that both views are important and they should be combined.
	On the one hand, some people think that increasing trade volume among nations will reduce the world poverty issue, especially trade between poor and advanced countries. It is a fact that due to the high unemployment rate in third world countries, labour and production costs in these countries are lower than in advanced countries. This condition has attracted so many investors from developed nations in doing trading and investing activities to many third world countries. And when trade volume increases, it will automatically create job opportunities for the local people, and gradually reduce the unemployment rate and poverty level.  
	On the other hand, other people think that the root cause of the world poverty problem is the mindset and attitudes of the people themselves. Most of the poor people have a traditional mindset and believe that education is not an important factor for success. As a result, they have a simple mindset and lack of skill which definitely affect to their economic conditions. Therefore, it is believed that poor countries should observe and learn the habit and the attitude of advanced countries’ people. By learning from them, it is expected that the perspective of the poor countries’ people will gradually change and hoped that their economic conditions will gradually improve. In conclusion, people have argued about how to resolve the world poverty problem. A group of people believe that the poor countries’ people should learn the way of thinking and attitude of advanced countries’ people, while others think that increasing trades would be the best way to solve the issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1870-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-781-if-people-have-more-money-they-are-generally-happier",
Essay 677:
	It is commonly believed that money brings happiness. However, it is a debatable fact that wealthier persons are happier and happiness is directly related to the money. According to me, money plays a vital in gaining happiness but a person feels joyful because of several reasons and they may or may be linked with money.
	To begin with, money is important to satisfy the basic needs for survival. Nowadays, we require money everywhere- that could be educational institutions, hospitals, supermarkets, et cetera. A rich person can obviously afford to visit various places around the world, which makes one happier. Moreover, today, for spiritual or philosophical guidance one needs money. In few cases, one may obtain joy by helping the needy people by giving a handsome amount of donations. In this way, one might get happiness. Therefore, one may consider that, ‘Money is the existing God’ in today’s world and one becomes happier when one has money. However, real happiness is priceless and it cannot be attained with money.
	Some others may argue that money could be useful to purchase the required things, nevertheless, one cannot buy happiness. For example, the happiness in the eyes of a mother when she gives birth to a baby cannot be bought by money. Next, real happiness is directly linked to the soul satisfaction. One can get exuberant joy without money as if by participating in charity work and so on. Hence, it is clear that one cannot relate happiness with money. Money can buy a luxurious house but cannot guarantee joy. Happiness comes from a satisfied soul and sound body while money can ensure the materialistic joys.   
	To summarise, one may consider that money is very crucial in achieving happiness and some sort of people may also consider that ‘money makes the mare go’. However, what I believe is that money is certainly an important factor but not a sole factor to achieve happiness. Thus, I strongly disagree that happiness is obtained by money in all the cases.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1869-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-780-flexible-working-environment-has-a-positive-impact-on-workers-lives",
Essay 678:
	Nowadays, employers are offering a flexible working environment to their employees such as work from home or any other place of their own choice. This has become possible with the advancement of technology and hence dramatically improved workers’ performance. Some people argue that freedom of working location significantly helps in reducing time and cost incurred on travelling and other expenses. Others claim that companies from lucrative business often adopt this trend only because of their profit and this is negative for the employees in the long run.
	Firstly workers spend a huge amount and significant time on travelling to and from their workplaces. This expenditure has to be pay from employee’s pockets; thus allowing them work from home would substantially save their money. Secondly working in a relaxing and stress-free situation drastically improve the quality of work and also reduce the time for the accomplishment of tasks. Additionally, an employee gets an opportunity to spend more quality time with their family at home.
	However, a large number of employee deprive off from learning basic traits of office such as teamwork, dedication, punctuality and strategies forming in absence of professional working environment. Moreover, companies save handsome amount as they do not have to pay for building rent, bills and other expenditure incurred in running a business. On the other hand, employee pay is not commensurate with their efforts and skills. Since many companies do not need their employees to be present physically at the office, the authorities are taking advantages of this facility and creating negative impacts on the employee's future career.
	To sum up I would like to say professional workplaces provide conducive learning and working environment than homes. Companies with free choice of work location are the main deterrent in employee’s future progress, as jobs ethics and behaviours can only be learned while working at a workplace.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1868-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-779-there-is-an-attitude-that-anyone-can-do-it-in-the-arts",
Essay 679:
	It is true that natural talents or skills probably can guarantee the future career of people especially in music, entertainment industries, literature etc. However, some people believe that they probably can be successful without having a skill or certain talent. I personally agree to say that people might achieve their goals of life without having a talent in terms of several reasons.
	The first reason is that it is not talent that can guarantee someone’s success particularly in entertainment industries but the major factor is all about popularity. The popularity can be gained by doing such unusual action that may attract people’s attention loving to see or enjoy it. For example, there are some artists or actors are hired by the film production not because of their talents, moreover, it goes to the unique character of those persons that enable them playing comedian film.
	The second reason is that the point of networking plays very important role in succeeding someone’s career in entertainment industry or arts. By having networks, we can easily get a job even though we do not have natural or genuine talents because people will recruit people who they know well by considering relationship and friendship values. For example, there are so many people sitting on the strategic position in a company because they have a closer relationship with the boss or managers.
	However, it is true that talented and skilled people probably tend to work professionally but talents and skills can be replaced by popularity and networks which lead them to have a job sooner and the professionalism will be gained during the experience in working or can be possessed through training provided by those companies.
	In short, popularity and networks tend to bring people having a wide opportunity in the job market and I believe that those kinds of things probably replace the existence of talents or skills as well as bring them to the prosperous and successful life.
Essay 680:
	There has been a fashionable trend nowadays to express individuals' talents for the sake of popularity and wealth. Also, there has been a developed attitude states" anyone can do it" in various types of talent. It then led to a result shows that people with no talents become rich and famous while those who were born with genuine talents are not valued or appreciated. This essay will present some arguments against this view.
	Everyone is considered talented, whether is talented-born or talented-trained. There are many types of talent in some areas such as music, literature, sports, painting, acting.etc. The view that non-talented people become famous and rich mostly based on several facts occur in a country. Take Indonesia as an example, the actress and actors are famous because of movies they performed. The fact that the casting requires physical attraction more than talents is no longer a secret. Since it is undeniable that good looking actress and actors attract viewers easily. But, at the same time, these performers are demanded to perform maximum to increase the quality of a movie. In another word, they are trained to be talented in the area of acting as it is believed that practice makes perfect. The popularity and wealth then come after practical opportunities, as better they act, the more they are paid and more famous they become.
	Moreover, it seems to be cruel to justify the genuine talents are not appreciated and valued considering the facts that sports athletes and singers are well known for their popularity and wealth. Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi, Dianna Ross, Rod Stewart and so on are the real examples how genuine talents are praised. After all. To explore and provide more opportunities to those who are born talented, several events such as X-factor and Indonesian Idol are held to enhance them in introducing their genuine talents. These are held to provide more access to those who are considered less accessible regardless their physical attractions.
	To conclude, I believe that all talents, whether it is genuine or product of habitual practices are well appreciated not only by popularity and wealth but also by-products they produce from various types of talents.
Essay 681:
	At recent years, there is an ongoing debate whether all of the people are equal to be artists or it is supposed to be the talented ones who are worth to do arts. I believe that talented people should be appreciated for their masterpiece, and throughout this essay, I will give several considerations relating to my notion.
	Each people has their own capabilities, interests, and talents. It is a fact that drummers master the drum music field such as the equipment, sophisticated techniques, etc. by autodidact or train themselves in certain courses to gain maximum skills and to be hired by a famous band. However, drummers may not have quite interests in acting or painting. As a consequence, the term 'anyone can do it' may be possible but the product of arts will not be a masterpiece. 
	It is inevitable that the equal rights to do everything including to choose the profession as an artist is undeniable. As a consequence, every people wants to be a famous artist because of the popularity and the huge salary. This leads to a complicated problem for finding the true talents in doing the performance. To overcome this, managers, agents, and talents searching events are the bucket of solutions to look for the real talents needed by the arts industries. 
	To sum up, 'anyone can do it' is a term caused by equal human rights among the people but people with original talents and interests accompanied by maximum development efforts are worthier to be appreciated as an art which they produced is overwhelming.
Essay 682:
	How do people become an artist? This question is a really fashionable trend in many parts of the world. Talentless people become an artist because of luck, a good opportunity, and networking. These reasons are commonly used by artists who are popular with this trend. I tend to disagree with this issue because becoming an artist is not about luck. I will outline the reasons and examples to support my arguments.
	The job of an artist is an honourable job. S/he is public figures whom people always stare on their performance both in their real life and on their stages. Therefore, they need to give their best in their life to entertain people. They have to make a great preparation and hard work before becoming an artist, so their performance will not disappoint their fans. For example, singers should train their voice, learn about tunes and songs before their voice are enjoyed by many people. A singer who gets that "singer" title without ability will gain the bad judge even s/he produce a good song by the citizen.
	In addition, artists who inexpert in their field are usually cannot survive for a long time, because they cannot perform a good performance. Take YouTube artists as examples, they only famous for several months and disappear because they lack the capability.
	It is true that everyone has their own luck and deserves to pursue the chance, but it cannot be denied that for a particular job such as artist need special ability and capability.
	To sum up, I must say that people have to prepare themselves well before they act as public figures to survive in that industry. In my opinion, as a nature talent, being an artist is really a special career, therefore I disagree that people get that job only because of luck and no attempt to get that position.
Essay 683:
	In recent days, there are so many talentless people come to entertainment industries. It is easy for them to gain popularity compared with the other entertainers.  Some assert that talentless artist becomes rich and famous and the genuine talent will not be appreciated again. I personally disagree with this viewpoint and this essay will look into the reasons together with some considerations.
	The first reason is that talent-less people obtain popularity for the short period of time. In my point of view, they cannot survive in the real competition with people who already have a remarkable talent in the entertainment industry. They are just becoming popular because of the role of media instead of their capabilities. For instance, there are some Indonesian artists becoming famous because of creating controversial issues. They have no capability which enables people to impress on them, thus it is quite easy for society to forget them. Meanwhile, talented entertainers will keep producing and showing their ability and capability so people will put more appreciation towards their performances.
	Another reason is that the usage of technological enables people to show up and it is easy for them to attract society and to become a well-known person. Moreover, technology can make talent-less people look like a professional artist. Take being a singer as an example, when people have no ability to be a singer, technology usage can edit and perform their voice as a professional singer. I truly believe that they will not stay longer in their popularity because society is able to differentiate people who have great talent or not. Therefore, they cannot replace the position of the talented artist in society.
	To sum up, to be a famous person, people should have the capability which can impress people thus it enables them to survive in that kind of life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1867-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-778-encouraging-the-development-of-creative-industries",
Essay 684:
	There has been a dramatic increase in unemployment rate in developing countries over the last few years. However, with the effective use of technological advancement, this gap could be shortening to some extent. Information technology can play a significant role in the career development of youngster by adapting software and game development as their profession. I strongly believe that those new industries substantially help youth in better careers and open new horizon of opportunities for them.
	Firstly, setup cost of such industries is very affordable and feasible, as it required a computer and a few software to start programming. This is not surprising that end products if fully developed could give them lucrative benefits and commercial gains. Moreover, youth can attract the attention of international customers by offering them cheap rate and reliable services by the use of numerous freelancing websites over the internet. Those websites pay their users in dollars after deducting a little charge for facilitating them.
	However, governments can also play a pivotal role in mitigating youth woes in many ways. They should offer loan to the educated people on low markup rate to start their own business. This will encourage youngsters to show their entrepreneur skills and thrive in their field of choice. Secondly, there is a dire need to make rectification in the merit system, a large number of potential candidates deprived of getting jobs due to nepotism and favouritism by the authorities concerned. Finally, the government should generate new job vacancies in numbers proportion to population growth.
	To sum up, I would like to say that youngster could get numerous benefits by using new and dynamic industries. As all the institutions are going to computerised, making new and lucrative opportunities for people associate with game and software industries. Moreover, vocational training by the government in information technology and other industries would help in depletion of unemployment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1866-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-777-traditional-festivals-and-celebrations-have-disappeared",
Essay 685:
	Traditional festivals and cultural celebrations are on the verge of disappearance in many parts of the world even though they have a paramount importance to the uniqueness of a country and a group of people. Globalisation, less adherence to the traditional ways of life and technological developments, in my opinion, are the main reasons for this great shift and I believe that patriotism and respect for someone's own cultural aspects could be the answer to this problem.
	To begin with, the New Year eve, Halloween, etc. western ceremonies have become more popular these days than the traditional festivals in many countries. For instance, in many Asian countries, the new Year are more prominent celebration than their century-old festivals. Globalisation, the internet and satellite TV channels have made a lasting impression on young to accept foreign cultures even more. No doubt the traditional ways of life no longer have an appeal to the modern generation and thus they have inclined to accept global culture over their own ones.
	In regards to preventing this development, parents and teachers should teach the younger students the value of their own culture. There is nothing wrong in knowing about the foreign culture but when they become our main culture, the problems arise. As the citizen of a country, we must not forget our history, tradition and culture. Thus the patriotic feelings should be nurtured to be even better citizens and prevent the detrimental effects of alien cultures. Moreover, more chapters on academic syllabus should be dedicated to teaching the students about our true identity, cultural aspects and traditions. This will create a sense of respect and adherence to our own culture.
	To conclude, each tradition has its own set of traditional occasions and events which should be more emphasised than the foreign traditions. Building up an acute sense of patriotism and respect for our own culture is required to save our true cultural identity.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1865-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-776-governments-spend-millions-of-dollars-each-year-on-space-programmes",
Essay 686:
	Investment in space research is often debated and people who are against this venture suggest that eradicating deadly diseases, educating children, fighting crime, hunger and corruption and improving people's lifestyle are far more important than searching for life on Mars. I believe that outer space research is quite important and totally justify the cost it involves.
	To begin with, the humankind always had problems on earth and a huge budget alone does not guarantee that we will be able to solve the crime, poverty, social discrimination and other pressing issues. To illustrate, some developed countries have better education facilities, lower unemployment rate and standard lifestyle and yet the crime rate is quite alarming in those countries. So diverting the budget from space research to the improvement of people's living style does not guarantee a result. Furthermore, only a handful advanced countries like the USA, the UK and Russia invest on outer space exploration. If they even stop the research, they are not going to give away the money to the poor nations.
	Moreover, we live in an era which is the gift if scientific inventions and research. Yet we have to go a long way to bring more innovations to the humankind. To better understand our life on earth, we have to explore further. A solid understanding of the planets around us would open unimaginable possibilities for us. Millions of dollars spent on finding the existence of 'life' on Mars might prove to be the wisest idea ever for the human. Who knows Mars might be the next planet for us to live on!
	To conclude, a large investment in the space research has not stopped countries from investing on our earth. The portion of the national budget by only a few countries to understand the universe we are a part of is quite reasonable towards the quantum leap towards the scientific improvements.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1864-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-775-strict-punishments-for-driving-offences-are-the-key-to-reducing-traffic-accidents",
Essay 687:
	Road safety has become a great concern for people with the rise of accidents and fatality those accidents cause every day. People have a varying opinion on how to make roads safe and I believe strict laws should be there to punish the driving offenders but a combination of other methods would bring better results.
	On the one hand, people seem to abide by a law or rule when they know that violation would bring severe retribution. For instance, in some Asian countries pedestrians used to cross the roads and when a more rigid penalty has been imposed, those very people started using the underpass. From this perspective, strict penalty and fine can certainly improve the road safety as people would be more cautious and afraid of the consequence of the violation of the traffic laws. As an outcome, it is a fact that, the sterner the punishment, the greater chances that people would follow the rules.
	On the other hand, there are already severe punishments for driving offenders including ceasing the driving license, monetary fines and imprisonments. Despite this, the number of road accidents is increasing every year. This is why I believe that only punishment cannot ensure the road security and safety. A combination of other initiatives is also required. First, we need to aware people about the devastating consequences traffic rule violations can bring to our life. Second, the requirements for passing the driving test should be standardised and made more practical, especially in developing countries where people can use advantages of the corruption. It is often noticed that many young people are given driving license without scrutinising their experience and skills. This should be completely avoided and after a certain period, each driver should be retested. Third, unfit vehicles should not be allowed to run on the roads as these cars cause more accidents according to the recent Road Transport Authority report. Finally, the traffic system of a country should be modernised and more surveillance cameras and speed test cameras should be there.              
	To conclude, punishment to traffic rule violators is a good way to make the road safer but the combination of other steps would bring more desired results.
Essay 688:
	At recent years, there is an ongoing debate whether giving dire punishment to driving offences are the best solution to overcome severe accidents in roads or not. While some support this idea, many others believe that governments should provide improvements in road safety. This essay will try to discuss both views with several considerations given underneath.
	People are not prompted to engage safety driving because there are no regulations relating to drivers to be more careful on the road. It can be found in developing countries where the traffic is not well arranged and as a result, the numbers of terrible accidents remain dominant. Dissimilar with it, developed countries pay more attentions in this case by restricting the use of vehicles without licence limiting the top speed in certain busy areas such as boulevards and main roads, and imposing fine for all the offence forms in high rate, and as a result, these countries can overcome traffic accidents.
	However, governments with all efforts must improve the infrastructure of safety riding. Traffic signs should be renewed, the facilities in the road are supposed to be changed, etc. so the drivers can recognise the driving surroundings vividly. Furthermore, technologies are also urgent to deal with daunting events in driving environment. It is good news that outrageously inventions have been created and applied but still attempts in technology findings are required.
	In conclusion, while there are regulations to be defined, governments together with scientists, engineers, and car businessmen have to maximise in providing safety riding facilities to gain maximum result on this issue.
Essay 689:
	On the one hand, many people worry about the number of driving accidents. Each year, the number of people who are injured or pass away due to traffic accidents has increased significantly. In most cases, accidents have occurred due to the interdisciplinary acts of the drivers themselves, such as speeding,  drunk driving or using their mobile phones during driving. And to solve the problem, the government should make a strict regulation about traffic accidents. People who are found to be guilty of any driving rule violation should be punished with serious penalties and detentions. By having these kinds of policy, it is hoped that traffic accident rates will decrease gradually.
	On the other hand, other people believe that strict punishments would not effectively solve the problem. There are other measures which governments and the public should consider. Firstly, governments could cooperate with the media in making campaign about safe driving. Television commercials and magazine advertisements could be used by the government in socialising about the negative effect of aggressive or offensive driving. Secondly, governments could also give rewards to their citizens who are obeying the road regulations. For example, when people renew their driving license, authorities could check their track records. Those who have clean track records could get motor vehicles tax discount or exemption.
	In conclusion, people have a varying opinion on how to reduce the number traffic accidents. While some people believe that there should be stricter policies and regulations about driving, others think that there should be another effective way of addressing the issue. In my point of view, I believe that both policies have their own positive sides and when people could combine them, it would be an effective way of reducing traffic accidents. 
Essay 690:
	Nowadays, the accidents that occur on the road are likely to rise in number in some countries. While an army of people think that these issues can be tackled by penalising offenders strictly, others think that there are other steps that can be taken to cope with it.
	It is clear that the strict punishments set up for the driving offences can make them fear to break the laws. For instance, if they are proven to disobey the applied rules, it is seemly a good way to punish them by taking their driving licenses forcefully.  This measure is likely to alert them to think twice before breaking the laws because if they commit it they cannot drive anymore. This way can indirectly encourage them to obey the rules hence the accidents on the road are likely to be declined. The traffic rules are applicable only for the drivers, but also for the ordinary commuters as well. While an over-bridge or an under pathway is mandatory for crossing the busy roads, many people do not obey this rules. It is not unusual that many careless drivers do not follow the traffic signals and all these violations of traffic rules cause severe accidents and congestion in many cities. Hence, implementing strict punishment and fine can be one effective solution to tackle this issue.  
	On the other hand, many believe that other measures could be more successful to address this problem, including creating awareness among citizens to drive safely, organising seminars & training programmes about the importance of road safety and modernising the traffic control system. The research carried out by Statistics Center, an organisation at the University of Diponegoro, reveals that citizens in Semarang who have wide knowledge about how to drive safely tend to obey the applied rules if compared to the ones who does not have this knowledge. This makes clear that these measures can be utilised to create a consciousness to be safe riders.
	Apart from that, the number of cars and buses on the roads in many cities is much higher and restricting the private car ownership can reduce the number of cars on the roads and thus the number of accidents or casualties. Improving the traffic system with modern equipment and enrolling more trained and professional traffic police could be another great way to tackle this issue.
	To conclude, the establishment of punishment strictly is a wise idea but by presenting workshops and training programmes to all citizens, especially drivers of different vehicles, improving the traffic control system are the finest ways to encourage them to increase security on the way.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1863-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-774-advertising-on-tv-that-are-targeted-at-children-should-be-banned",
Essay 691:
	We live in a world which is full of advertisement and these adverts are consciously and subconsciously shaping our purchasing habits. Adverts that target children, be it on TV, billboards or the internet, should be completely banned as their marketing strategies to target children are totally unethical and have detrimental effects on our young generation.
	In the first place, children are not decision makers and not matured enough to differentiate quality products from low-grade ones. Adverts that are primarily intended for young fail to comply with the very fundamental norm of ethical advertising - to inform people. For instance, many chocolate companies make advertisements to allure children and their adverts have more fantasy than facts. Though they know that parents would be the potential purchaser, they try to use the sentiments of children and their desires to trap parents to buy their products. Since this is quite obvious that advertisements made for children have an immoral and unacceptable objective, these adverts should not be allowed to be shown on mass media.
	Furthermore, children these days watch TV more than ever before. This is why allowing fabricated and immoral adverts would expose them to a pseudo-real world where they would be brainwashed. Childhood is the most precious time for the proper psychological development and that is why adverts that target children are detrimental to their cognitive development.
	To conclude, all campaigns and adverts that target children have only one thing common - mislead the young, allure them and force their parents to purchase products that they otherwise would not have purchased. Those unethical and heinous advertisement must be prohibited on TV by all means.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1862-it-is-more-important-for-children-to-study-mathematics",
Essay 692:
	Job opportunities are becoming highly competitive these days. Skills in a foreign language and mathematics keep a person the extra mile ahead of people with knowledge in music and arts. The importance of arts and music cannot be denied in a person's life but it is evident that for most jobs, a second language and mathematical skills are far more important. That is why I totally agree with the idea that children should focus more on mathematics and a foreign language in academic life than arts subjects unless he wants to become an artist or a musician in professional life.
	On one hand, music and arts are important for our personal and social life. However, it can be learned by anybody but everybody cannot become an artist or musician without inherent talent and total dedication beyond academic study. Moreover job market for arts and music is much smaller when compared with technological and science-related occupations. For instance, if a media company requires an artist, they will hire very few artists and their communication and language skills would also be judged. At the same time, lower pay rates in art-related subjects should also be considered while deciding which major a child should take in his academic life.
	On the other hand, mathematics is an essential subject that everyone should learn. This subject encourages children to think and improve their brain capacity and memory. Moreover, mathematics is involved and an important part of every job sector these days, including information technology, auto engineering, banking, designing, researching, construction engineering and so on.  At the same time, skill in an extra language always increases the opportunity for a job seeker. For example, when a Japanese Construction Company seeks a construction expert for their project, they would definitely prefer the person who knows Japanese among other candidates. Since one of the main objectives of academic lessons is to prepare children for their future careers, mathematics and second language should always get priority.  
	To conclude, without a doubt learning mathematics and a foreign language signifies the capabilities of children and their future. I am not against teaching school children arts and music but as long as their future career is involved, teaching mathematics and a second language should always give priority. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1861-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-772-it-is-wrong-for-humans-to-search-for-new-worlds-in-space",
Essay 693:
	Only a few percentages of people on earth are affluent while a majority of the world population is suffering from hunger, malnutrition, diseases, scarcity of housing, lack of pure drinking water and this list would go on and on. A group of people think that researching outer space is totally unjustified while people on earth have so many problems. On the contrary, the second group of people believe that outer world research is important for our own advancement. I agree with the second group of people who believe space research is necessary and justified.
	First and foremost, only a few developed countries like the USA, Australia, Japan, Russia and the UK spend money and resources for the space analysis. If they stop this exploration and research, they are not going to give this fund to poor countries to fight their housing, crime, diseases, and hunger issues. To put in other words, practically it is not possible to use the space research fund to solve pressing issues of all the countries. Furthermore, poor and developing nations should utilise their own resources to address their problems rather than taking donations or loans from rich nations.
	Another key thing to remember, space exploration is necessary to understand the universe and life on earth. This could open a whole new window of development. So far we have not been able to trace any intelligent species on other plant but who knows when we meet them what development and information they might share with us. IT might be the best next solution for the pressing issues we have on our small planet. We should not stop studying the universe we live in and concentrating on earthly issues is not a viable solution for the overall development of the mankind.
	In conclusion, space research is purely scientific works and can bring unimaginable development for us. Since only a few developed countries invest on space exploration and research, it should be carried on.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1860-government-spends-about-220-million-a-year-supporting-museums",
Essay 694:
	The overwhelming budget for arts, museums and galleries is often criticised by a group of people and they advocate the need of this money on more pressing issues like hunger, poor health care, and terrorism. They also opine that people who have enthusiasm for such arts  should bear the expenses. I believe that arts and museums are part of the enlightened world and they reflect the identity of a country. Hence the spending by the government in arts is quite logical.
	To begin with, museums preserve the history and they have great educational values. They attract a huge number of foreign visitors and bring foreign currency for a country. For instance, the British Museum in London alone attracts more than 6.8 million visitors annually and this brings a lot of foreigners in London as well. Furthermore, a large number of art galleries and theatres are the reason people find visiting the UK a unique experience. They would  not have been here if the UK did not have these attractions. On top of that, visual arts, performing arts and other art forms reflect the unique heritage and culture the United Kingdom has. They convey our strength, tell our history and preserve our culture.
	Human minds crave for arts and without arts, science would become too technical to the mass  people to enjoy. For instance, the incredible powers of computers do not only solve complex mathematical equations, but also create animations, graphics and other forms of arts for people to enjoy.
	In summary, people need arts as much as they need science. Only food cannot ensure better living as we need to get engages in creative activities and yield artworks. In my opinion, the works of Thomas Hudson are no less important than the works of any scientists. So the government's funding for different forms of arts and museums is totally justified.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1859-entertainment-or-leisure-activities-should-be-subsidized-by-the-government",
Essay 695:
	People nowadays suffer from work-related stress and the increasing competition and need for extra earning to support the family have already made their life quite nonchalant and hectic. Entertainment and leisure activities are important parts of our overall wellbeing and for a better lifestyle and increased productivity government should allocate budget to promote such activities.
	Firstly, it might seem quite logical that when a government already has the scarcity of budget for important sectors like education, healthcare, transportation, trade and agriculture how come extra money could be allocated for leisure and entertainment activities. But there is no denying the fact that entertainment and leisure activities have an immense effect on our physiological and psychological well-being. A small amount of money subsidized for entertainment can actually save a huge amount from health care sector. Thus subsiding budget for the amusement and leisure activities for people is actually a beneficial idea.
	Secondly, governments in most of the countries already subsidize a large amount of money for amusement and leisure activities of mass people. For instance, the parks, botanical and zoological gardens, public library, sports centre, swimming complexes, beaches etc we see around us are already financed by the government. From this regards, this is always a good idea for the government to provide facilities for leisure activities to its citizens. Thirdly, proper facilities of entertainment and free time activities are proven to be educative in many cases. For instance, libraries, museums and establishments like these are not only entertaining but also offer a huge opportunity to present educative information to the people.
	Again, the government can actually earn money from these facilities. For instance, beaches, sports centres, theatres and auditoriums could be great sources of earning for the government if they are properly utilised. Finally, it is proven that free-time activities and entertainment facilities decrease the crime rate in a locality. Thus investing in public activities would actually bring a huge benefit for the government and the country.
	To end the discussion, I quite agree that allocating budget for the leisure and enjoyment of people is quite a prudent idea and every government around the world should do that for the overall benefits of the country and the citizens.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1858-education-is-the-key-to-tackling-hunger-worldwide",
Essay 696:
	Many individuals think that education helps to go through poverty and starvation around the world. However, there is an opposite view that food aid is the most important to deal with it. I firmly believe that both education and food aid are helpful in solving this problem.
	There is no doubt that education can help poor people become wealthier and be able to provide themselves, for example, buy groceries and pay bills. This happens because after school graduation teenagers are able to find only low payable jobs and most of them cannot cover their bills or buy enough food to survive. For this reason, many people go to University to study. Moreover, in the highly competitive business environment after completing degree most of the graduates can find better jobs with higher income rather than they were able to do after school. Also, there is no end of tertiary education as people can do a masters degree and the salary of those will increase gradually. All these examples are the sufficient evidence that education is a major source of obtaining wealthy lifestyle. To develop and progress as a nation, the citizens must be educated. The globalisation has made it possible to live and work in any country but to do so someone has to be educated and skilled. The migrated people also send a huge sum of revenue that helps the country to develop. Hence to alleviate the poverty and hunger, education is the key. In terms of fighting the hunger and poverty globally, education helps to make the people be skilled and more efficient. For instance, an educated farmer has far more potential to contribute to producing more crops than an uneducated farmer. The Same rule applies in all other sectors as well.
	The next point that needs to be taken into consideration is that food aid obviously helps to tackle starvation over the world because it is the first necessary thing to do when people are hungry. For example, there are places in Africa where individuals are dying from hunger because there is no food and job prospect there.  For this reason, food aid is vital in helping those and after that ensuring education and training could be helpful. Education is not achieved overnight and to educate a generation in a country needs a huge budget. On the contrary, people are dying from hunger and scarcity of food. Those people need immediate aid and the education could be a long term vision to make them self-reliant.
	To sum up, although some group of people argue education is the most crucial to deal with starvation and others believe that the food aid is the way to solve this issue, I would argue that the combination of both are required to support hungry people around the world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1857-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-768-working-hours-are-too-long",
Essay 697:
	People have begun facing more challenges in their life as the world is always transforming into a more modern one where human beings have to deal with an increasing number of competitions to survive. Consequently, longer time must be spent for working. I do agree that this will lead to declines in the number of hours spent for families or even leisure activities. For some people, this can really be frustrating, while others can still enjoy this condition.
	There are three reasons why some people experience more working time today. Firstly, the economic or financial condition will force those whose income is still low and need supports from other livelihood or longer time in the same job. Secondly, some people also perform a great number of activities every day as a lifestyle because they really love their jobs. Thirdly, as responsibilities they bear, people in some areas such as arms have to deal with every consequence even if they are needed to take part in a war raging for a certain or uncertain period of time.
	However, the effects of this situation where working hours are more are not always worse. For those who do this because of a low financial condition when they must work under a stressful condition even when their employers are very strict and unfriendly, this is truly desperate for both themselves and their families. In contrast, for those with the remaining two reasons, it is apparently to be fascinating because they work as they love their jobs or as their responsibilities for other people such as their countries, which in turn can bring them and their families some tremendous satisfaction or pride even though they should inescapably feel or enjoy less time together.
	Regarding this, in my perspective, considering what kinds of jobs we like to do and being prepared for that can help us to be more independent while choosing any livelihoods. By doing this, everyone can find them always fun as his or her lifestyle.
	All in all, despite the increasing working hours experienced by many people nowadays which will cause less togetherness with families as well as the lack of leisure activities, we can deal with this by preparing a better future since the very beginning so that more opportunities and choices will open.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1856-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-767-many-people-like-to-wear-fashionable-clothes",
Essay 698:
	It is true that wearing brand clothes has been becoming a usual habit in many communities. People are always encouraged by propagandas to purchase more fashion goods far more than in the past. I personally believe that the negative consequences of this lifestyle surpass its probable advantages.
	Obviously, citizens are continuously pushed to use more fashion because of two important reasons. The first one is the positive role of advertisement. Before, the only devices for advertising of a product were television and radio; however, now individuals are constantly exposed to a variety of commercials shown on the Internet, inducing them to buy more clothing being designed recently. In particular, as users are searching on Google, they unconsciously see different advertisements shown by different companies on the each side of the page. Therefore, they are tempted to watch the related page more and purchase shoes, shirts or other clothing. Another factor is that consumers have access to more variation of styles and brands than before. Obviously, competition between different international companies has led them to generate more different brands with specific logos. As a prime example, while only Adidas, Nike, Puma or Reebok were the leading sportswear by the year 1990, more different sports clothing have been allowed to be produced with different names after that time, like Columbia or Asics. As a result, users have more options to select their favourite clothes and change their interest based on the latest model.
	From my point of view, this way of living can and will have more drawbacks. The first reason behind it is that individuals may forget the quality. Clearly, considering which materials are used in a dress can be far important than its name. For instance, we may pay just over $100 for a Dolce & Gabbana shirt, which is almost five times we have to pay for a CHAPS one, whereas the quality and longevity of the latter could be far better than the former. In addition, the rate of consumerism has grown far considerably. Citizens are exposed to more fashion goods, causing them to spend more money on unnecessary items. In this case, some youth are used to wearing varied shoes instead of only one, but they cannot even afford their medical or dental expenditure.
	In conclusion, broadcasting and producing of more different merchandise are the two crucial factors why individuals prefer to use fashion. This has increased consumerism, and the quality of products has gradually been forgotten.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1855-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-766-the-way-modern-society-is-developing-is-being-shaped-by-people-s-migration",
Essay 699:
	Nowadays, urbanisation has changed people’s lifestyle thoroughly. Those living in suburbs or rural areas have gradually moved into central cities to find better opportunities, not only for a job but for accommodation, better life and advanced facilities. From my point of view, this modification has had more drawbacks to communities.
	To begin with, two important reasons have led individuals to select sprawling cities as the best places for living. One is that they are more to find better job positions. Clearly, the branches of many multinational companies are located in large cities than in small cities. For example, a fresh computer graduate living in a small village of the USA is rarely able to find an appropriate career in his place, while by moving and living in Los Angeles, he will be able to apply for IBM, HP, Microsoft or other international corporations. Another benefit is that they can have a better lifestyle. Obviously, urban inhabitants can have more options to inhabit, like living in skyscrapers or luxurious huge mansions which might not be found in suburb areas. The advancement of technology and modernisation are fewer in rural areas than those in the city. Finally factories, industries and other companies also attract labours and blue collar job seekers and that’s another reason many people move to large cities.   
	This migration trend has changed the social structure and the economy of cities. The cities are expanding faster and the increasing population are also creating many issues that were rare in the past. The huge population from different ethnicity, educational status and religion has created a mixed culture in the cities. Apart from the positive aspects, this mixed culture offers, many social and environmental problems are also being created because of that.
	In my view, this change of living condition has had more negative consequences than having more probable advantages. One obvious disadvantage is raising the density of air pollutants in cities. Unfortunately, using more private cars in metropolitan, dwellers are faced numerous heart and lung problems. In particular, had the government of Tehran, the capital of Iran, prohibited migration of rural people there, the rate of morbidity and mortality would have dropped fundamentally since last three decades. According to medical officials’ report, just over 40000 of humans in Tehran died because of air pollution in 2014. Furthermore, traffic congestion has been deteriorated in urban areas. Admittedly, as the population grew, more private cars were to be used, leading traffic loads inflated far considerably and causing people to have more stress. However, controlling of immigration of villagers could reduce traffic jams, and citizens had less tension in their daily life.
	To sum up, although displacement of humans into major urban areas has had some credible benefits, its negative influences must not be forgotten. Increasing the density of air emissions and traffic congestion are the two prominent consequences that have jeopardised city dwellers’ lives because of mass immigration.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1854-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-765-cinema-attendance-in-some-countries-is-on-the-decline",
Essay 700:
	It is true that people’s tendency to see films is decreasing in some places of the world. This essay examines the various reasons of this trend and tries to propose practical solutions for this menace towards film industry.
	To begin with, people have no sufficient free time to do their leisure activities as they are busy with their responsibilities: both professional and individual. For example, most of the people in India are doing full- time jobs without a break to meet their increasing economic needs for the family. Therefore, they may not get chances for enjoying cinema with their family or friends. Moreover, quality of the film is another important reason. To explain, some filmmakers do some compromises in different sections such as casting, editing and visual effects, while making new films and create poor quality movies. Such type of movies makes boredom for the audience very easily and as a result, they have no interest to watch these. For all these reasons, cinema attendance is declining a greater extent in some nations. The availability of Smart TV, internet and computer has made it possible to enjoy movies at home and that is another reason people do not want to visit cinema often.
	However, there are several methods to tackle this issue effectively. Firstly, the government should reduce working load of people and make sure enough entertainment facilities for them in order to improve film attendance rate. In addition to that, the cost of film tickets should be reduced which would be helpful for ordinary people to buy film tickets from film theatres. Furthermore, all films should meet the basic standard to assure the quality. To be clear, standard films would be a visual treat for audiences and would also motivate them to watch again. By doing these methods issue can be solved to a certain extent.
	To conclude, due to above-mentioned reasons people’s desire to watch movies is diminishing. I hope authority will consider the remedial measures to enhance cinema attendance.
Essay 701:
	Although, cinema is becoming increasingly popular all over the world, but the result of a recent research reveals a downward trend cinema viewers affecting many countries in relation to this. This essay will discuss both causes of this trend and will propose a solution to solve this problem.
	Firstly, one of the main causes for the number of cinema goers to decline is the easy and fast internet access. Unlimited movie download facility from the Internet as well as watching it online is giving people the opportunity to watch their favourite movies at homes. ‘Globalization and popularity of foreign movies’ are two other reasons why people do not go to movie theatres to watch local-made movies. The quality of local-made movies has declined in many countries and that’s why many people think it does not worth to go to the cinema hall to watch a movie.  
	There are some small measures that could be taken to decrease the sensitivity of this issue, restriction on Internet providers for free online movie videos could be an effective measure. Movies are copyrighted and the unlawful access to copyrighted materials for free should be controlled. In particular, the film industry can register a police report against online service providers for illegal copyrights of the original movies and free access to watch these. The quality of local movies should be enhanced to attract more people to watch it in the cinema halls.
	In summary, the above problems can be solved to some extent by applying the suggested measures. It can be predicted that the drop in cinema attendance could be controlled by taking proper measures.
Essay 702:
	It is believed that the number of people who watch films in cinema has been declining in the past few years. The following essay will discuss in details about reasons why it is decreasing, and some action plans that could be taken to resolve the issue.
	For a number of reasons, the number of people who go to the cinema has been declining nowadays. Firstly, it is due to home theatre system become more affordable these days. As many electronic retailers offer various kinds of discounts or instalment programs, a lot of people own home theatre devices nowadays, and they choose to watch films at home. Secondly, it is because pirate films are sold freely in some countries, mostly in third world countries. Illegal retailers offer various kinds of movies, from drama, cartoon, action and even ethnic films and the price of these pirate films is very affordable. As a result, the public would choose to buy these films rather than going to the cinema.
	However, there are several things that the government and people could do to solve the problem. The government should have strict and proper regulations about selling illegal films. Illegal retailers should be closed and the owner should be punished in accordance with the valid regulation. People who purchase or own illegal films should also be given some detentions as well. As for cinema owners, they should have some innovations or upgrade their cinema buildings. For example, they could convert the existing cinema into a 3D cinema and upgrade the sound system to a newer version, as they would attract more visitors.
	In conclusion, cinema attendances are declining lately, because more people are owning home theatres system and choose to buy illegal films. To solve the issue, cinema owner should upgrade their theatres and the government should make a proper regulation about pirated films.
Essay 703:
	Entertainment is an important and essential tool in everyone’s life today. Cinema and music are the most effective means of relaxation and entertainment in people’s life. They put off the stress of the people. After a hectic day in the office, one feels burden off only when he watches the television or his favourite film. However, nowadays there is a decline in people who is watching cinemas in the theatre. There are some important reasons for this cause. I will illustrate them along with the measures to solve the issue in the following phrases.
	In the first, the main cause for the decline in the number of people watching cinema is the arousal of piracy at peak level in the community. One feels that it is merely a waste of money to watch the film in the theatre when he can watch it for free or at a low price in the computer or in television by using the pirated DVD or CD. Secondly, people find it boring to watch the same routine stories; there are no new concepts and new messages being conveyed by the cinema.
	People nowadays are very busy with their daily life. Many of them prefer to stay at home to relax rather than watching a movie on the weekends. However, there are also reasons like the raised prices of the cinema tickets wherein people of all classes cannot afford it.
	However, measures like strict government rules for the eradication of the piracy must be implemented; seizing off the internet centres and other online centres for selling the pirated DVDs and CDs. Film industry must come up with new innovative concepts showing the advancement in technology, the life history of great leaders, historical stories and stories relating to the woman development and empowerment. Cinemas must show the reflection of the real life along with the entertainment they provide us. Furthermore, expense on film tickets must be liberalised so that everyone can watch the film. In addition, quality of the movies should be raised and there must be some standards set for the movies so that people of all the age group film comfortable to watch it.
	To conclude, the above-mentioned reasons are causes for the decline in the people watching movies. However, there are also remedies which I hope that the authority will look after.
Essay 704:
	In the past, going to the cinema was one of the commonest ways to spend one’s free time. However, nowadays, in some nations, this is not the case anymore. This essay will suggest that the root causes for this phenomenon are poor local film industry and the high cost of cinema tickets. Thus, the solutions will be to improve the movies’ quality and making the fee payable by all the population.
	The principle reason for the decline in cinema attendance in some countries is the poor local movie quality. Today, the main target for any film industry in these countries is only to gain some money, instead of entertaining the audience. Thus, they tend to hire inexperienced actors and use cheap resources, so that they pay less and hence, gain more. Another reason to mention is that the tickets are being even more expensive than before, which restricts the attendance to rich people, while even medium-classed population cannot afford its costs.
	The most practical solution to tackle this issue is to enhance the quality of film industry. Filmmakers can hire well-experienced actors and actresses, and pay more in production and advertising. This will increase the attendance and in turn, will increase the profits. The government can also help by buying international movies like Hollywood movies. One other important measure to increase numbers of the audience is to lower the costs of attendance, so as to make it accessible to all population regardless of their ability to pay.   
	To summarise, the decline in cinema attendance has become a widespread problem in some countries. Bad quality of local film industry is one of the most important causes, but fortunately, there are many ways to improve this situation. So, this problem is expected to be solved in the coming years.
Essay 705:
	Cinema was one of the major entertainment sources during the 20th century, across the globe. The current trend indicates that the number of people watching films in a cinema hall is reducing in many countries. This essay will demonstrate the causes for this change and will provide the possible solutions.
	It is apparent that work pressure is increasing day by day due to competition. As people spend more time at their job, they have less time for entertainment. For instance, in Asian countries like India, Singapore etc. employees work around 10 hours a day due to their work requirement. In addition to that, they spend 1 to 2 hours on average for travel. They hardly get spare times to enjoy movies. Thus it is obvious that in some areas, people do not get enough opportunity to enjoy movies. This can be solved by restricting the work to maximum 8 hours a day. Both the government and the companies should come up with a policy that the workforce is never exploited.
	Another important reason why some citizens do not have the interest in cinemas is due to its focus on less interesting issues. For example, most of the current South Asian movies just gravitate towards money spending and give less importance to stories or theme. After watching the film, there is nothing to study or accept from. By analysing how film industry concentrates on illegitimate factors, it is clear that the youth is definitely distancing from movies and switching to games in some nations. One way to get rid of this problem is to focus on the issue which the people enjoy. As the interest change from region to region, it is up to the regional film industry to recognise the demand for that area.
	As a conclusion, it is apparent that by taking some measures, by government and industries, definitely cinema viewers can be increased. As a result, the film industry can use this as a mean of creating social awareness.
Essay 706:
	The creation of cinema has led it to become one of the major entertainment activities during the 20th century across the globe. However, the current trend indicates that the numbers of people watching films in cinemas have reduced in several nations. This essay will illustrate the causes of this change and will suggest some possible solutions.
	It is apparent that work pressure is increasing day by day due to the competitive nature of employees. As people spend more time at their jobs, they have less time for entertainment. For instance, in Asian countries such as India and Singapore, employees work around 10 hours a day as mandated by their employers. In addition to that, they spend 1 to 2 hours on average commuting daily. They hardly get spare time to enjoy watching movies. Thus it is obvious that in some societies, people do not get enough opportunity to enjoy movies. This can be solved by restricting work to a maximum of 8 hours a day. Both the government and the employers should come up with a policy that ensures that the workforce is never exploited.
	Another important reason why some citizens lack interest in going to cinemas is due to the movies focus on unimportant issues. For example, currently, most South Asian movies just gravitate towards making revenue and give less importance to storylines or themes. After watching a film, there is nothing worth studying or accepting from it. By analysing how the film industry concentrates on the wrong aspects of movie making, it is clear why youths are definitely distancing themselves from movies and switching to playing video games in some nations. One way to get rid of this problem is to improve on the aspects which people enjoy, such as storylines or themes. As audience interests differ from region to region, it is up to the regional film industry to identify the demand of their area.
	As a conclusion, it is apparent that if some measures are taken by governments and industries, cinema attendance can definitely be increased. As a result, the industry can use this as a means of creating social awareness by incorporating important themes in the movies.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1853-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-764-all-countries-are-facing-health-issues-related-to-modern-lifestyles",
Essay 707:
	Nowadays, the numbers of people who face health problems have increased rapidly due to modern lifestyles. There are various reasons which have caused the situation, and the following essay will discuss the issue and how to address it.
	For a number of reasons, many people are facing serious health issues due to the modern lifestyle. Firstly, due to the globalisation, people have a longer working hour these days and consequently, they do not have or have a limited amount time for doing exercises. As a result, many employees are facing health problems such as high blood pressure and diabetic. Secondly, due to the high volume of work, many people are consuming instant food nowadays. Many scientists have proven that these instant foods are considered as unhealthy, as it could trigger some serious threat to the human's body, such as tumour or cancer.
	There are things that people could do to avoid these unhealthy lifestyles. One of the things that people could do in their workplace is by doing some light exercises at the office. For instance, they could take the stairs instead of riding the elevator. And then, they could change their diet pattern, by bringing healthy foods from home, instead of dining at a fast food restaurant. And last but not least, people could consider in changing their mode of transportations. Instead of using their motor vehicle to work, they could ride a bicycle. Riding a bike is not just a simple and healthy exercise, but it also reduces the air pollution as well.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that many people have problems with their health condition due to the modern world. It is mostly due to longer working hours and unhealthy diet patterns. However, these problems could be solved if people change their lifestyles, such as by stop consuming junk foods and bring healthy foods from their home or doing some light exercises at the office. Once they change their lifestyles, I am sure that their health condition would improve.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1852-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-763-some-people-get-into-debt-by-buying-things-they-don-t-need",
Essay 708:
	It is a fact that people are becoming more consumptive and materialistic these days, as many of them purchase luxurious goods or things that they do not really need and debts are common among such people. There are various reasons that have caused the situation and the following essay will discuss them and some of the things that people could do to address the problem.
	For a number of reasons, many people are facing debt problem nowadays due to the consumptive lifestyles. Firstly, with the existence of social media such as Facebook or Instagram, more people are showing off their luxurious goods, take some photos and upload them into the applications and it triggers them to buy fancy stuff.  Secondly, with the significant growth in the number of elite malls, they attract people in spending more money on secondary needs such as fashion, jewellery or gadgets. And lastly, as applying and obtaining credit cards are easier these days, many people are buying expensive things which are greater than their income. As a consequence of this hedonism lifestyle, many people are ended up with a serious problem of debts.
	There are several things that people could do to solve the problem. One of them is that there should be a clear regulation about credit cards that must be followed by banks and financial institutions, regarding the procedure of issuing credit cards to their consumers. It must be ensured that the credit limit that is given to credit card holders is aligned with the individual’s income. And then, instead of adding more malls in the city, the government should focus on building more public parks and children playgrounds. Therefore, people would have more options for entertainments besides going to the shopping centres.
	In conclusion, it is true that a lot of people are having debt problems, as they purchase luxurious stuff and having fancy lifestyles. Some of the factors that trigger the problem are due to the effect of social media, the increasing number of shopping malls and the easier procedure in obtaining credit cards. And to solve the issue, the government should make a better regulation about credit card usage and build more public facilities; therefore people have more alternative places to visit beside malls.
Essay 709:
	Nowadays, as a result of economic growth, the incomes of people are increasing and they start to consume more goods than the past. However, some people get to be in debt because of buying goods, which they do not actually need and could not pay. In my opinion, it is very important to prevent people from getting trapped in this problem.
	In the first place, there are several reasons for this behaviour. One of the most important catalysts is the psychological problem. For instance, when some people are upset and disappointed, they tend to go shopping and buy everything they want. In this situation, because of their loose of control, they could not consider the things whether they need or not. Equally important, another reason is their temporary desire. To specify, at some moments, people always have the ambition to possess something, which is not normally necessary for them and out of their financial situation. Therefore, they will make a purchasing decision without assessing the benefits and drawbacks. Credit cards, purchase cards, gift cards etc. are more available nowadays and having a credit card from a band is easier than ever before. These shorts of cards and loans allure people to purchase more luxury items they can live without. While repaying, people get trapped and the high-interest rates increase the loan amount significantly.   
	Admittedly, this behaviour could bring people into a very dangerous situation. Hence, the government, as well as the community, should take place some solutions to deal with it. Firstly, every store or shopping centre should control their customer purchasing by checking their financial status. As a consequence, it will restrict people in buying the items, which they cannot afford. Moreover, we should organise some psychological course for people, who have problems with shopping. Lastly, the sale staffs of shops should advise and give a good recommendation to their, which enable them to have the best choice. Banks should be more rigid while approving the credit card to a person and the credit limit should be within the affordable amount by the card holder.
	In summary, to avoid getting into debt, everyone should consider both advantages and disadvantages of the products before buying it. Someone should not simply purchase a product because of pure luxury or pride. The repayment should also be considered at the time of purchasing.
Essay 710:
	Buying unnecessary things despite some people's financial limitation and getting into debt have affected our society severely. There may be various reasons for this attitude, but in my opinion, competition, social tradition, greed, marketing tactics, and materialistic expectation are the influencing factors for such a trend.  Prudent thinking, positive mentality and some laws can prevent it. 
	Firstly, some people feel an invisible competition and they try to prove their superiority by having more and thus made a habit of showing off. For instances, if someone buys a latest electronic gadget, many others, who feel the invisible competition, might get frustrated for not having the latest model. Many of them would actually buy the latest model just to be ahead of the competition. Sometimes, they will borrow from others to have those materialistic greed fulfilled. Thus they get into debts and cannot purchase things that they really need at a time.
	Secondly, in countries like India and Nepal, dowry system still persists and in many cases, bride's parents are compelled to take a loan and fulfil bride-groom parents’ demand. Besides, social trends often force people to maintain a lifestyle that they cannot afford, and those people are forced to get trapped in debts. Again, personal greed to own more and to have more often allure people to purchase things that they do not need and borrow money from others. Marketing tactics are meant to attract as many customers as possible and we are surrounded by marketing and it is quite tough for us to be prudent while purchasing. Finally, easy bank loans for fulfilling different needs can often trap people to fall in debts.
	Reasons for our getting into debts explained above are deeply rooted in our society and have affected peace and harmony of many families. People should give up useless competitions and be contented with whatever they can afford rather than trying to have a lifestyle that they cannot manage. Government and concerned authority should make strict laws to abolish dowry system and bank loans should be made more rigid. Finally, our personal realisation is the most important factor to prevent ourselves getting trapped in debts by purchasing things we do not need. This is a personal choice and no one is going to stop us from purchasing unnecessary things unless we develop a self-realisation.
	In conclusion, too much attraction towards materialism and competition bounds us to buy unnecessary things and there are proper measures to control this abominable habit and self-realisation is the most important one.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1841-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-762-technology-is-being-used-to-monitor-what-people-are-saying-and-doing",
Essay 711:
	It is true that technological devices such as surveillance video or mobile phone are utilised for monitoring public activities these days. In the most common case, many people do not realise that they are being monitored. Although the existence of these devices has some drawbacks, I do believe that it has more benefits for our communities and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	On the one hand, it is reported the usage of technological tools has increased, such as video cameras that are placed everywhere by authorities and the tracking of individuals' cellular phone using satellite technology. These acts are unfavourable for some people since authorities do not inform their residents about the activities. Some people believe that this is against human rights and freedom, where people should have their own privacy. Besides that, this monitoring data could be misused by the member of the authorities, as the data could be sold to another party for business or political purposes.
	On the other hand, the existence of CCTV in public places and satellite tracking of mobile phones would bring many advantages for the humankind if they are used appropriately. With the existence of these video monitoring activities, it would help the police department in preventing and investigating any crime activities. And then, with the sophisticated satellite tracking technology, it could help authorities in tracing crime persons, as they could search the existence of criminals through the signal of mobile phones. It has been proven that with the usage of these sophisticated technologies, it has reduced the number of crimes in many countries.
	In conclusion, it is common that governments use advanced technology devices such as video camera and handphone tracking system to monitor their residents' activities. And in common cases, these monitoring activities are not informed and socialised to the public, therefore some people believe that they are against human's privacy policy. In my personal opinion, I do believe that these activities have more positive sides than its negatives if authorities use it properly.
Essay 712:
	In today’s modern world, technology has developed at a fast pace and undoubtedly, it brings a handful of benefits but at the same time, it still has disadvantages like making the monitoring of what people are saying and doing. The essay will examine both sides of the issue.
	The advanced technology nowadays makes people feel insecure as tracking process is made to be simple for people to monitor their friends or family members. Those who are being monitored may not aware of that this is happening and this leads to some issues related to personal privacy arrived. For instance, we constantly bombarded with the news that some couples will use this technology to track their couples through the electronic devices. Therefore, people may feel stress as they are afraid of being the next target of being monitored by others through cell phone tracking.
	Nevertheless, the developed technology does bring numerous advantages. To begin, this technology like security cameras can help to prevent crime from happening. Thus, the crime rate will be reduced. The police nowadays like to use the security cameras wisely to monitor the would-be offenders and take effective actions towards them immediately. On the other hand, this useful technology enables the children to keep track with their elderly parents for the reason to ensure that they are safe. By using this technology intelligently, children can take immediate actions whenever their parents need help or in danger. In other words, children can take care of their parents’ safety before things get worse. As a result, we can see that most of the children today will definitely buy their parents a smartphone with a tracking application installed.
	In conclusion, I believe the advantages of this development do outweigh the disadvantages. Even though there is a negative impact on people lives that is being monitored by others through cell phones, there are some benefits as well. Not forgetting to mention that a coin has both sides, if we can utilise this technology in an intelligent manner, we will surely get benefited and our country will continue to prosper and flourish in the decades to come.
Essay 713:
	As the mankind has progressed, the technology has advanced as well. From the telephone which was invented by Graham bell in the 19th century to the iPhone invented by Steve Jobs in the 21st century, we have made a lot of progress in terms of technology. As a result of this revolution in technology, more and more gadgets are being used to monitor people. However, such monitoring has both positives and negatives when it comes to the end result.
	CCTV cameras are quite mundane in shops, malls, etc and they help the bosses keep an eye on their employees. As a direct result, the employees, being aware of the monitoring, work efficiently. In a travelling job, the bosses can track their employees via GPS and thereby prevents false report-ins. Moreover, shoplifting is also often either averted or the shoplifter gets caught from the CCTV tapes.
	In spite of the advantages of monitoring people using technology, there are cases where such monitoring may cause problems. CCTVs are often installed in trial rooms to prevent shoplifting. However, a person may unknowingly end up naked on tape while trying an apparel. With regard to an employee, continuous monitoring may lead to him/her not enjoying work and ultimately quitting, to work in a more relaxed environment. In addition to this, tracking once it is known, is being done, and becomes vulnerable. Consequently, the original source can be manipulated, erased or made public.
	However, I still feel that monitoring by technology, despite its drawbacks has more pros than cons. Monitoring, at public places, can help provide safety and security to people. Police and other security personnel can track mobile phone conversations of suspects without them being aware and can, therefore, prevent crime. Camera footage from a crime site may help the police nab a gangster and the same tape can be used for his conviction.
	In conclusion, the advantages of monitoring people via technology outweigh the disadvantages. However, steps need to be taken to ensure that there is no harm to the privacy and integrity of people while monitoring them even when they do not know, that they are being monitored.
Essay 714:
	From my point of view, this development has more benefits, although it has some drawbacks to a certain extent.
	It is true that the technology of monitoring people would violate the privacy of individuals. Citizens have no private room and can't keep their secrets, which would undermine the quality of their daily life significantly. No matter where they go and who they meet, all of them are exposed under the monitoring of others. Furthermore, some people are even unaware of that they are under monitoring. It renders some outlaws take advantage of these technologies and then commit some serious crime to the innocent people, for example, tracking, committing fraud, even murdering. People are placed in a very passive position because they don't know they are monitored by the state of the art devices.
	Despite the argument above, the monitoring technology can lead to the positive result as long as we can oversee and control it properly. It can be used to monitor some sensitive locations with high crime rate by our police. There are many instances in our real life that real-time monitoring can help police to prevent crime from happening as they can monitor some specific spots all the time. For instance, once suspects show up under the camera, the police can take prompt action to bust them in advance so that no one gets hurt during the action. Nevertheless, making good use of the monitoring technology has to ensure all of them are under control of our authority rather than criminals.
	To sum up, although this development has some potential drawbacks like being used by criminal to commit crimes and violate the privacy of individuals,  we can make use of it to help us to prevent crime from happening as long as we ensure all of them are under our control.
Essay 715:
	Technology provides a valuable, almost indispensable aid to our daily living.  It helps us saving time, remembering things, being more efficient and safer. It is thus a logical consequence that it is utilised as a tool to monitor social behaviour, in order to prevent or restrain situations that could cause harm to others.
	This is indeed the main argument used by those who are in favour of the monitoring use of technology. Tracking phone calls and text messages could preventively stop terrorist attacks, uncover instances of state corruption, and help to investigate crimes. Security cameras have been proven to be an effective small-crime deterrent and allow citizens to move around the city without the constant fear of been robbed, pickpocketed or assaulted.
	We have to consider, however, that technology is yet not self-sufficient and can only provide a set of data that needs to be interpreted and checked by a human operator. The human factor, as any human factors, will, in turn, belong to a societal web and will, as Foucault would put it, follow a specific, pre-ordered, hierarchy of power. The point at stake here is then not really if we do benefit from the monitoring use of technology, which we surely do, but if such socio-normative and reprimanded apparatuses could not, in fact, be turned against personal freedoms and nurture the rise of totalitarianism. George Orwell's famous novel "1984" provides a dystopic picture of the effects born out of an excessive use of technology as a mean to monitor human lives.
	In my opinion, technology provides an effective way of preventing and punishing deviant behaviours but could very well, at some point, be used to coerce individuals. For this not to happen, a scrupulous policy in regard to technological monitoring has to be effective at all times.
Essay 716:
	With the exponential growth of the technology in recent times, we are also seeing its wide and varied application in all walks of life one among it is to track the movements of people and their doings. This application can be a boon or a bane but in my view, the harmful effects outweigh the useful outcomes.
	Firstly, increasing intrusion in one’s life events without consent is seen as a denial of privacy which is a fundamental right. This can be viewed as a major emotional setback as it happened in the case of phone tapping row in America which resulted in clashes between government and public. Not only it leads to distrust among people but also disturbed the social harmony which existed. Furthermore, the data collected by monitoring can be misused if it ends up in wrong hands. For example, people can use these data to extort money or events like ATM frauds and credit cards frauds or leakage of private images on the internet damaging the reputation of the concerned individual.
	Although, one cannot deny that these activities of surveillance by designated authorities can prevent any attack on humanity by antisocial elements like terrorists thus maintaining peace and harmony in the society. Moreover, these kinds of monitoring at a certain level can be used by the employers for employee appraisal by knowing the right candidate deserving rewards for his hard work.
	To conclude, as every coin has two sides similarly use of technology to keep track of people also has its own advantages and disadvantages though in my opinion disadvantages outweigh advantages by a small margin.
Essay 717:
	Nowadays, the advancement of technology has immensely catalysed the improvements in our day to day experiences. Technology plays many vital roles in the fields of medicine, industrial science, research, and telecommunications. Additionally, these technological advancements are utilised by security agencies. Some are concerned that recording people's activities through the use of technology without their knowledge are against citizens’ privacy. In my view, this is of little concern compared to the many positive aspects this surveillance brings for us including protecting citizens from terrorists and detecting crimes.
	Firstly, the implementation of technology, especially in establishments for the use of security, has helped in resolving crimes like theft. More and more companies take advantages of this by installing multiple CCTVs or surveillance cameras around their premises. Criminals who are unaware of these cameras are caught red handed in doing their mischief. In addition, surveillance cameras not only help solve the increasing crime rates but also aid in finding lost items and tracking down runaway pets by reviewing the recording of the previous days and even weeks or months. The sole objective of this monitoring system is to protect and detect crimes, not to violate people’s privacy. The criminals do not come from other planets. They live among us thus to detect them the security authority needs to monitors all citizens.  
	The only disadvantage of the use of technology in this aspect is the violation of a person's privacy. Some individuals hold very high regard to protecting their personal space and would be dismayed to find out that they were recorded on a hidden camera. Because of this, there is a decreased amount of freedom that one has in doing some activities, most especially in public places.
	In summary, technology has drastically improved our way of living and has greatly contributed to resolving the criminal cases around the vicinity. It is my deepest belief that there is more space for the development of technology which will absolutely defy the few disadvantages that this advancement brings.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1840-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-761-the-internet-allows-us-to-stay-connected-with-each-other",
Essay 718:
	It is a fact that internet technology has helped people in connecting with their relatives and friends without the boundaries of distance and cost, but many people think that the technology has made people become less socialized and more individualistic. To a certain extent, I would agree that the internet has negatively affected to people's social life, but if we use the technology in a wise and appropriate manner, it has a lot of positive functions.
	On the one hand, it is true that many people are having social life problems these days, due to the existence of internet and information technology. Almost everybody have their own mobile phone nowadays, and they can use it for browsing, chatting and online gaming.  With all the attractive and entertaining applications, many people like to play around with their gadget for hours and abandon their social life. As a result, it has been reported that many families are having communication problems these days due to they have less time for an eye to eye contact with other family members.  
	However, it can be clearly seen that the problem has risen due to the improper and indiscipline act of users themselves. If the internet is used in the right purpose and in the appropriate portion, it would bring many benefits for mankind. Firstly, internet technology has truly changed the way individuals and corporations interact and correspond. With electronic email and chatting facilities such as yahoo or google, people could communicate and connected with other people in a more efficient and effective way. Secondly, the internet could also be used to expand people's networking. Social media sites such as Facebook or twitter could be used to connect people from different areas, maintain friendships and even it could be used for online businesses as well.  Therefore, it depends on of the users themselves on how wise they use it.
	In conclusion, although online technology has become a problem for some people's social life, others disagree about it. To a certain point, I do believe that internet could be a treat to our social life, but if people use it wisely and appropriately then I do believe that it has a lot of benefits for individuals and societies.
Essay 719:
	In today’s modern world, with the development of technology, we are able to communicate with people around the globe. However, some people assert that this advanced technology will not benefit us, in return, it will cause harmful effects on the way people socialise. Thus, we will examine both sides of the argument before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	Undoubtedly, people nowadays get benefited due to the advancement in technology, for example, internet. It allows people to communicate with others more easily and in a convenient manner. In the past days, the way people used to communicate was far more troublesome and time-consuming than that in the present day. That is, people could only write letters or send telegrams to keep in touch with their friends or relatives who live in the other part of the world. Nevertheless, internet which is available these days provides an opportunity for people to stay connected with others through social media like Facebook or email. Not forgetting to mention that, it only takes about a second for delivery and receive by their friends or family. Therefore, it is apparent that internet gives a golden chance to people worldwide to communicate with others which is impossible to achieve during the past decades.
	On the other hand, there is always another side of a coin. The internet is believed to have detrimental side effects on the ability of people to socialise. To begin, internet at home causes the inhabitants of a city to stay at home whenever they are free. This kind of habit will cause them to lose the interpersonal skill which is crucial and should be mastered by every individual in their lives. They should, for instance, take part in youth or sports activities so that they can meet new friends and develop the socialising skill. If they do not learn how to communicate with others in face-to-face conversations, they are less likely to achieve success in their jobs which require the sophisticated communicating skills. Hence, it is clearly shown that people may eventually lose the ability of socialising if they overuse the internet.
	In conclusion, the internet brings numerous advantages and disadvantages to our lives. However, I believe that we should spend our time wisely on using the internet as it can be more beneficial provided we do not overuse it and we should learn to socialise face-to-face rather than bury their heads into the screens of electronic gadgets.
Essay 720:
	Today, developments in the cyber-space have revolutionised the way people to communicate. Although it has created better contact options to the users, they have less active relationships than the past, and I believe that this has caused people to become more isolated.
	On the one hand, citizens are able to communicate better through the web in more different ways. The first is the expansion of social networks. Facebook, twitter or email are three familiar examples that have led all age groups to be able to communicate via their electronic devices. They can see their friends’ pictures, opinions or even their news shared on their page. In addition, trading has become more straightforward. Businesspersons can easily contact to their partners through the Internet via teleconference or Skype; however, in the past trading was not as simple as now, and traders only had to travel and meet their partners. As a result, electronic communication between the businesses has caused people to socially feel closer with each other.
	On the other hand, innovations in telecommunication have caused humans to become more isolated socially. One reason is that they are used to have less face-to-face relationships. Had the Internet not developed so fast, people would have participated in more social gatherings. For example, twenty years ago, as a high school student, I and others peers were encouraged by our authorities to participate in weekly meetings to discuss educational, social or even personal issues, becoming more socially active, but now many students are interested less. Another reason is that cyber-addiction is a leading reason that citizens to feel less elated. Clearly, the more technology of smartphones develops, the more individuals will be engaged in more variety of applications and become more dependent on them. Therefore, they will spend less time on travelling, spending their time with their friends, becoming more secluded and desperate.
	In conclusion, modernization has had some positive influences on humans’ relations. However, I personally believe that it has caused people to socially become less active due to spending longer hours on their computers and have less close communication with each other than before.
Essay 721:
	In the modernised society advancement of technology has pertained new trends and it is being observed that various sources or modes of communication channel been evolved. Internet considered being one of the immense Innovative technologies. These avail people to connect with any part of the globe. The evolution of Internet makes each individual stay connected to their loved ones and also to socialise with different people from other parts of the world. These are more advantageous in day-to-day life and it had become one of the essences of human, which always stays connected rather isolated. Let's discuss the advantages of advancement in Internet technology and the impact which hooked the society.
	Firstly, the Internet is meant to be one of the important inventions where human ever evolved. Most argue that the internet is considered to be one of the main sources in today's world. This makes people collaborate each other not only officially, but also emotionally. To illustrate further, for official related tasks it makes associates share their ideas globally and prevail helping to be connected. With the use of Internet, an individual can stay connected with different cultures and with different people around the globe. Moreover, the internet has made life easier when compare historically. For example, in olden days, if any messages or information needs to be passed, the only mode was human; then evolved the post, telephone and now instance mode of connecting is through the internet.
	In addition to the above facts, it not only benefits officially, perhaps it stays connected emotionally. For instance, people who stay away from family and deputed outside the world can communicate with their family and chat video / audio based on the facility available through Internet. Alternatively, when compared to 10 years’ before trend, people can collaborate with same society and to a limited audience, but through Internet an individual can connect and socialise to any part of the Globe. These are one of the healthy ways of collaborating with different people around the globe. The impact has made enormous to communicate people and to learn different cultures and to understand the facts of each country. The Internet makes people create awareness of various globe threat diseases or any human illegal plans. For example, in recent days the globe threat disease Ebola which shaken the whole world, these has been reached various parts of the world and alert people to take immediate action to prevent the disease, this is believed to be with the help of Internet. People started posting alerts and preventive measures about the disease through social media through Internet.
	Alternatively, the Internet has numerous impacts which have been proven and obstructed the society. The internet is one of the deadliest sources which can affect one country's economy. There are various hacking and facts behind hackers that should be admitted. The human evils can be spread through the internet.
	In conclusion, socialising with people or not is individual's perspective. It resembles more of individual's characteristics rather than targeting the communication mode. The internet is one of the communication modes which facilitate to communicate globally in an efficient way rather than isolating with people. It is more of people's mindset than blaming on the technology. Most of the facts favour that the internet is most efficient way to socialise with people rather that impact.
Essay 722:
	During the last two decade internet has made a huge advancement. This is very apparent when we look at the medium of communication of the recent past. Some people believe that this advancement has opened up avenues for socialisation. While others argue that due to the progress of the internet, individuals are becoming more self-centric. While I personally believe that the progress of the internet has made the earth a small place to live in and hence, it has catalysed the socialisation.
	Firstly, due to the huge progress in technology along with the internet, we are never away from our loved ones. Just by a mere click of a button, we can connect with any person, who live in any corner of the world. For instance, using the internet we can make a Skype call to any individual whom we wish to connect. All we need is just an internet access. By using this "Skype", not only can we speak to that person, but also we can see him/her. Thus, with the internet, the world seems a smaller place.
	Moreover, social networking sites are mushrooming on the internet. These sites are just meant for the purpose of socialisation. Take "Facebook" for example, where not only we can be in touch with our friends, but also we can share our day-to-day activity with our acquaintances. Hence, these "social networking sites" are one of the greatest mediums of connectivity and never isolate us from the rest of the world.
	After analysing the above points, we can safely conclude that, if utilised well, the internet helps us in socialising. Also, it provides us with a great platform for being in touch with our loved ones. Looking at the positive impacts of the internet, it is also expected that, in the coming future its popularity will grow exponentially and more people will start using it as their primary medium of connectivity.
Essay 723:
	It is obvious that Information age brings speed to our life. Speed and easiness of the internet make it the most popular media in social affairs. “Social networks” concept has been redefined by the internet development.The internet connection type advocates are of the view that meanwhile, the internet links us together, it has not any side effect; I disagree with it.
	First of all, the internet connection methods such as social networks encourage people not to visit each other physically. Their users gradually prefer to use cheap and available internet connection to find their relevance and friends instead of visiting each other in the real world. This may lead to reducing kindness between people. For example, children may rather send a birthday congratulation email to his/her old parents instead of visiting and embracing them. They may even send their birthday gift using gift websites.
	Moreover, using this media for connecting to others, may addict their users. They overspend plenty of time in social networks, checking email, chatting, and etc. while they have necessary personal and professional works. They forget time behind their computers smart devices. Their performance had reduced in work; this may cause giving up their job. They also neglect their personal activities such as personal cares and doing house chores.
	To conclude, although it is undeniable that the internet brings enormous useful services for us, I hold the view that using it as media for connecting world people are damaging in the current manner. I hope we can use the internet better and improve our relations quality.
Essay 724:
	The development of technology has become faster and faster. The internet as one of the advanced technologies is believed by many people to make communication easier. Albeit, others think that the internet restricts people to socialise. In my point of view, I believe that the upsides of internet outstrip the downsides.
	Firstly, the internet allows people to get in touch with their families, friends, and relatives who live or stay in other countries. For instance, some Asian students choose to study abroad. By the internet existence, they are able to interact and communicate with their families, even if they are limited by many miles away from their home. They can know about their parents' condition and share information about themselves using some features that are provided by the internet such as Facebook, Instagram, Skype, etc.
	Secondly, by using the internet, people are able to share memories and information with people around the world. The internet makes communication easier, so people can recognise the conditions and situations in other countries. They can enrich their knowledge about world's issues and try to find solutions if it is needed. People do not have to go a certain country to find out what is happening there since the internet helps them to get anything.
	Moreover, the internet allows people to make new friends and acquaintances. Hence, they will socialise with other people from different circumstances. This would lead people to have a good relationship with the citizen of the world and acknowledge about their cultures.
	To sum up, I believe that the internet brings many benefits, mainly to allow people staying connected with each other no matter how far they are. The advantages outweigh the disadvantages that the internet brings along.
Essay 725:
	The internet has become an essential part of our life and it is hard not to underestimate its influence in modern society. However, it is a very complicated question to answer about its positive and negative sides in terms of people’s reaction towards it.
	Nowadays it is particularly impossible to live without modern gadgets. New technologies are used in everyday life by millions of people around the world. Social relationships between us are getting easier with the help of mobiles and the internet. We may do everything online- buy things, do business, communicate with your friends, exchange your opinions with others. Even distant education in overseas countries is available on the internet. Everything you have to do is just to be connected to the global network. Apart from this, it opens wide fields for everyone who has ever used this helpful source of information and communication throughout the huge world. Social networks are getting more and more popular among young and middle-aged people, even elderly ones try to use this convenient means of communication.
	Nevertheless, the role of the internet in many negative aspects of our life is crucial. We are becoming more involved in the virtual world, without understanding all side effects of its usage.Children play violent and cruel games on the internet, sitting in front of a computer for hours. They don’t know another reality, but the virtual one. It really makes them internet addicted since their early  years. Moreover, the number of crimes and suicides among teenagers has also grown dramatically. Violence, aggression, racial intolerance and lechery are altogether the dangerous companions of the modern World Wide Web. Despite all the statements about the global connection between people, owing to the internet, we can see that many of them are incapable of having a vivid communication with their relatives, neighbours and colleagues at work. A lot of families don’t spend their free time together anymore; they are separated by the internet from each other. In addition, many prefer to stay online the whole weekends and they really don’t care about surrounding reality.
	To sum up, I would like to say that the internet is just a part of our life, like many other things and there will always be a lot of different judgements and opinions upon it. Furthermore, only we can do it better or worse for ourselves and our society in whole. It is full of advantages and disadvantages, as well as everything in this world, but it’s up to us to stay connected with others or to be isolated in its diverse and extensive area.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1838-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-760-in-the-past-students-did-a-university-degree-in-their-own-country",
Essay 726:
	Only around 30 years ago or so, it was hard for people to travel, because of the monetary problems or the difficulties to collect a wide range of documents needed. Nowadays, not only visiting, but living in the other countries are fairly usual and many students decide to take the degree at the foreign universities. However, does this allow them more benefits than drawbacks? Let’s discuss.
	On the one hand, it happens that the student's home university may be not the best in the world in some fields of study. Hence, students won't be able to obtain the knowledge at the required level and become a highly professional at his future career. That is why students choose the universities with the positive reputation outside their own motherland.
	On the other hand, some countries, as North Korea, count the living in the different countries as treachery. Leave the home area for studying means to show how bad the teaching is inside. It will result on the popularity of the country and thus, the tourism level. Also, usually, the period of learning at the university lasts from 3 to 7 years and by the time the person will graduate, he will get used to living abroad. Hence, bright and able professionals would forget its motherland, which will lower down its place in international levels even more.
	In conclusion, I also want to study medicine in the foreign country, because the level of it in my home country is not that high and I wish it was better. For me, the advantages of studying abroad outweigh drawbacks. However, I do want the students to come back and help their home countries even in every way.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1837-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-759-it-is-becoming-increasingly-popular-to-find-out-the-family-history",
Essay 727:
	The first reason is that people tend to clarify and identify the origin of their family to detect the characteristics of every member psychologically and biologically. In psychological view, we are claimed to have a similar character with other family members as well as a similar behaviour on how we face the problems. Moreover, biologically, it is clear that we get the character genetically from parents, then by observing and identifying this biological feature we are able to understand why we possess a certain character and how to change the character in future for the next offspring.
	The second reason is that we face many criminal cases nowadays in terms of adopting children which give unclear identity for those children in the future when they are registered in migration office as well as when they are sent to the school. This condition gets some people to identify the history of the family to avoid the constraints in administration process in every place where they are. For example, they absolutely need the data of parent birth date as well as their valid address in making a family card. They then try to find out some information from people around them.
	On the other hand, there are some people who believe that this action is merely a waste the time. There is no advantage to think more about the past or the history of a family. However, every person has his/her own pride to identify the characteristics of family members. We cannot deny that they are all memorable to be memorised forever. The most important thing is that we must respect the way people love their family.
Essay 728:
	Recently, in most countries, it has been becoming a trend finding the history of people's life, especially their family backgrounds. This trend can lead to several benefits for many aspects such as easing the employers to get a necessary employee, or collecting data of social ranges in the countries for further uses, or even preserving historical backgrounds among the nations. This essay, as my point of view lead to, will elaborate more about the reasons people doing this as I believe that this trend is a good improvement.
	Firstly, how a family educates their children influences the way of thinking of the children in some ways. Besides, the beliefs the family holds and teaches the children will always be with the children. Thus the first school for the children is the house they live in. An employee with so scheduled activities can be related to the way to the way of his/her parents educating him/her. Relating to this, corporations take this indicator, the family backgrounds, as one of the considerations to select the applicants for appropriate positions.
	Secondly, historians recognise this as an academic interest. They collect the information as much as they can attempt to gain perspectives of social, economy, and also culture from the society. They use this as the database to preserve the historical background to remind the young generations to not to forget about their own personal background family as well as to make several suggestion policies which are proper for the condition of the group of families inside the country for the government. As the result, there will be massive positive outcomes for both individuals and governments to deal with severe problems in society because the database includes beliefs, values, religions, and other relating things from the society.
	To sum up, having considered all views above, I believe there will always be great to find out the historic background of families in the society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1836-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-758-we-never-know-when-the-natural-disaster-will-shatter-an-area",
Essay 729:
	In today’s modern world, we are constantly bombarded with the issue of natural disasters happening around the globe. Thus, some people assert that preventing the occurrence of natural disasters is merely the responsibility of government as they believe they can do nothing in preventing it from happening. Nevertheless, I think that cooperation between people and government is essential in protecting citizens from natural disasters.
	Undoubtedly, a government has the largest obligation to take the practical measures to prevent natural disasters from happening. They can, for example, employ those scientists and geologists to predict the time of occurrence of disasters. By knowing when there will be a natural disaster, the government can then take the effective prevention to mitigate the potentially dangerous effects on human lives. To illustrate, to tackle the problem of the tsunami which may cause the death of inhabitants, the government should allocate a portion of the money to improve the current drainage system and to build barriers near the sea-coast. Thus, it is apparent that government has more power to lower the potential risks of natural disasters from happening and its effects on the citizens.
	However, it is not to say that citizens have no responsibility to protect themselves from natural disasters. They can take little but could prove useful ways in dealing with this problem. For instance, parents should educate their children from young to behave well by not simply throwing rubbish into the drains and rivers which may eventually cause blockage. This kind act is proved to be useful in preventing natural disasters like flooding. In addition, they should also take part in a campaign which gives information of what can be done by citizens in order to minimise the negative impacts of natural disasters on human beings. Although there are limited actions that an individual can take in dealing with this problem, the possible negative impacts on humans can still be reduced if every citizen plays their own part.
	In conclusion, it is the responsibility of both government and individuals to mitigate the unanticipated impacts of natural disasters on human beings. I believe our nation will continue to prosper and flourish in the years to come and the citizens can be free from disasters.
Essay 730:
	People have established a government to lead, guide, and care for the whole country. A government always knows its sworn responsibility and one of it is to assure the wellness and security of the citizenship from disasters, man-made or naturally caused. I agree that the government is responsible and accounted for keeping its citizens from natural disasters, to keep them informed and provide safety and rescue measures once a disaster had already occurred.
	It is necessary for a certain individual to know what he should do in case of emergencies and so relevant information would serve as a vital role to save oneself from a disaster. The government should disperse information for the preparation of the entire community before catastrophe could happen. An example would be safety tips during and after an earthquake. As a student before, we were exposed into an earthquake drill so we were somehow taught what to do during an earthquake. So when a real earthquake occurred, we just stayed calm and did what we have practised.
	Moreover, a government is also reliable to save the people injured so rescue facilities should be sent to places which have been affected. Trained professionals and volunteers, rescue mobiles, and other related rescue units are the appropriate ones to be dispatched. Like floods, which usually occur in most regions of our country, rescuers used to save the victims through rescue boats and retrieve them from their affected homes.
	Overall, the government should keep its responsibility for the safety of its people from naturally caused disasters through the use of relevant information, and necessary facilities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1835-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-757-globalization-will-inevitably-lead-to-the-total-loss-of-cultural-identity",
Essay 731:
	Mass communication and transport are growing at a faster rate and provide an opportunity to become a change in international globalisation. Because of this incredible growth we have to limit the world, able to reach people in a smaller span of time and can see and roam all over the globe. Some people think this change is not good for their culture and are strongly against to it. In my opinion, change plays a vital role in someone's growth.
	If we look at the history, we accepted many changes in our day to day life which made our life comfortable and easy to live. We are in the 21st century and we have a solution for almost everything. For example, a patient who is suffering from a severe disease and not getting a better treatment in one place, he would have the option to get treatment in another place, maybe in some other country. We get this information via internet, TV, news. This is how people are connected and helping each other to survive and excel in their life.
	Yet to another part of above, a culture can not be represented by the dress someone wears, the language what someone speaks, It’s just a lifestyle which is acceptable by someone and help lead their life all with happiness. Though the human has different characteristic but they have the same emotions and feelings towards their own family member. They can act differently in some situation but the pain and sorrows are almost same in all human being because that's God given.
	Therefore, I do not agree that mass communication and transport gives any negative impact on culture, it is someone's own perception and totally depends on them that what changes they like to embed in their life. Hence, criticising other culture and not giving human value can bring disaster and put us in soup.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1834-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-756-damage-tourism-can-cause-to-local-cultures-and-the-environment",
Essay 732:
	Recently, there is an ongoing debate about the significant impacts on the economy by thriving tourism industry create further severe problems in local cultures and environment. This essay, as my notion leads to, tries to elaborate this issue as I believe that problems created are inevitable.
	Firstly, the tourists, whether they are foreigners or local ones, tend to disobey the cultural background of the tourism places. Even though they are well known about the surroundings habit, they consider themselves as guests who are supposed to be served by the local society paying no attentions to the native motives.
	Secondly, they care less about the environment such as evergreens, rivers, beaches, etc. because they are aware of the government’s existence who has an obligation to maintain a quality environment. To be exact, they just throw the garbage away into inappropriate places. The local people get influenced by the way tourists dress and talk and they also adopt other foreign cultures that are threatening to the local culture. It is often observed that people in tourist area engage their children in work instead of sending them to school and that has a huge impact on the overall growth of the economy and future of a country, especially a third world country.  
	Lastly, they together with stakeholders who are taking an interest, in this case, argue that this industry can lift the nation from economy problem through opening job opportunities or increasing the income of local citizens as well as the government revenue at the same time, but it seems to be irrelevant. The experts revealed that tourism may cause more expenditure in preserving the unique local cultures and also more expenses in taking care of the environment surrounding tourism places, and it costs more than how much a nation can afford from the industry.
	Having considered all views above, it is fact that tourism sector has positive effects on the economy but the negative impacts are much higher to overcome by money gotten from this particular sector. Hopefully, governments and councils can regulate the industry by taking more concern in all aspects (economy, culture, and environment) to result in the maximum outcome.
Essay 733:
	These days, many of us believe that tourism can be regarded as one of the most contributive aspects for economic growth of the country. However, some of us still find some drawbacks of tourism because it can dilute our indigenous traditions and make people do not care about their environment. I agree with the notion that tourism can harm the local culture and its environment. In this essay, I will support my opinion with some reasons.
	To begin with, we should open our eyes to the fact that tourism has lead to the great transformation of economic growth in our country. Many people around the world try to visit our country in order to know our cultures and enjoy the beautiful views of our country. This fact shows a number of advantages to our economic growth such as the growth of industrial aspects. However, this development can harm our indigenous cultures and environment.
	Nowadays, the growth of tourism transformed our life to the different style of life. Compare to the past time, these days, a majority of the people have been influenced by the western culture. In the past time, the youth and elderly respected each other and still preserved the value of culture, and morality. Today, westernisation of culture happened and tried to interfere our lifestyle. The high values of culture and morality almost erased from the dictionary of society. People tend to forget their indigenous cultures and traditions, moreover, their offspring following the same. They no longer care about the upkeep of their cultures inheritance and trapped in the western cultures which identical with the nightclub, drinks, and party. Take Bangladesh as an example, in the past time, Bangladesh was very well-known with its traditional cultures. Presently, this country is changing and no longer known for their cultures.
	To sum up, I think that although tourism can drive to a better economic growth but still, we should not lose our sight that tourism also can harm our local cultures and environment.
Essay 734:
	It is true that tourism has become a significant source of the national budget for several countries over the world. Those countries concern and allocate more money to develop the tourism industry in achieving the bigger income as well as the satisfaction of tourists. However, some people show such kind of disagreements to this affirmative action by considering the effect of tourism to the local society culturally and environmentally. I personally believe that this agreement is not truly correct in because of several reasons. This essay aims to show my stance to support the development of tourism and provides several convincing arguments regarding this controversial issue.
	The first reason is that tourism sector contributes such big income to the country through economic activities run by societies around the tourism places. It is clear that tourism is now becoming an industry that creates thousands of jobs for the citizen in terms of its management, protection as well as promotion. People who have skill in English probably would build a tour and travel business and become a guide. For those who have certain creativity or arts may sell their products of arts in a shop, or people might sell some soft drinks and snack to the tourists. These all economic activities crucially contribute to achieving the goal of government to provide job fields and to give the prosperity of society.
	The second reason is that developing and promoting tourism object is the most effective way to broadcast the positive-country-image to the global society in order to attract them to come to those countries as tourists or even as investors. Moreover, going to beautiful tourism places has inevitably been a demand for people over the world and it is a kind of “golden chance” for every country to promote the best places in their regions. Let us take Bali Island as an example, which has been successfully promoted and being promoted as the image of a piece of paradise in Indonesia.
	On the other hand, some local people tend to refuse the policy of the government in developing tourism. The reason is so simple because they consider the harms of tourism development that cause cultural loss and environmental damage. However, I believe that both cultural and environmental protection are the parts of tourism development on how government allocate the budget to tourism sector for creating a clean environment or ecotourism and promoting cultural tourism in which environment and culture are the basis of tourism.
	All in all, tourism development does not harm the cultural values and environmental parts. Moreover, it supports the existence of local values as well as keeps the environment clean and green.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1833-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-755-parents-need-not-to-read-or-tell-stories-to-children",
Essay 735:
	People have different views on whether parents should read or tell stories to children. From my point of view, this practice is more beneficial to children, although the opposite view does have some advantages.
	It is undeniable that letting children read books by themselves would cultivate their independence. As they can explore the world of books by themselves, there is no restriction to their mind. Children can build up the ability of independent thinking in this way. Besides, more broaden information is available for children by this practice. Books, movies, TV have various information and some of them are very valuable knowledge. It is a good way for children to accumulate this knowledge with entertainment ways as they won't feel any pressure on it.
	Despite above argument, the way of sharing or reading stories to children by their parents has more distinctive benefits. Parents can enhance the relationship with their children. For example, the time spent on reading stories together is memorable and meaningful to both parents and children and they can have an open discussion or free chat with each other. Another benefit is that parents can provide an appropriate guidance to their children so as to keep them away from some negative materials which are overwhelming in the media nowadays. It is essential for children to grow up with their parents' guidance.
	To sum up, reading stories to children can enhance the intimacy between parents and children as well as provide some proper guidance, although letting children read by themselves can help them to build up their independence and acquire various knowledge from different channels.
Essay 736:
	The attitude of children towards the society is mainly based on the knowledge they get from books, TV and media. However, some think it is the responsibility of parents to read the stories to children, while others think children have the ability to read and understand the things on media, books by themselves. I will discuss both aspects in the below paragraphs.
	Firstly, Parents are the first teacher to their kids. Parents are the one who will have a vast influence in moulding children for the betterment of their future. Parents can convey the right messages gathered from books, TV, media in a more precise way. Also, parents can broaden children's view by discussing various elements of life by telling stories. Furthermore, parents can teach more the efficient method of reading books and gathering information from the media. On the contrary, too much influence of parents develops a dependent attitude in children, which reduces the self-confidence in taking decisions. Children will also follow negative aspects of their parents as they are not getting enough opportunity to think in different directions.
	Secondly, children develop a unique ability of self-decision and judgment if they are allowed to read books, watch TV, media. This self-dependence will have a positive impact on their academic carries. In addition, creativity and imagination will be moulded according to their experience and imagination. On the other hand, children will accept everything without knowing the positive and negative elements which will impact their personality and future.
	To sum up, I opine that, both approaches have advantages and disadvantage but parents have more influence on the development of positive attitude in children by guiding them in each element. However, parents should act in such a way that, the learning and independent decision taking abilities of their children are not compromised.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1832-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-754-some-people-say-that-public-libraries-should-be-free",
Essay 737:
	Some people believe that library should be made available to the public without entrance fee because new arising modern technology and internet access can already provide information resources. Nonetheless, most people will no longer visit the library. However, others argue that it should have an entrance and membership fee.
	We can never deny those people who believe that library should impose entrance and membership fees to the public. The funds are needed for the maintenance of the facilities and purchasing of new books. Library is still important because it is a quiet place where people can read the books peacefully. Nowadays, there are various web pages on the internet that can provide similar information as in the library. Nevertheless, the convenience of the place is much more calming for the reader. The reader cannot concentrate on reading information on computer shop because of the noise from other users. It is widely true that information from the internet has several adverts, and it interrupts on comprehending the information. Therefore, the library is still important for the readers. It does not rely on electricity. It is conventional and boundless. There is not health and mental hazards on reading in the library that might happen due to excessive use of a computer.
	However, some people point out that library should be free to users. It is widely believed that the aim of good governance is to educate certain people in the society. Public libraries should be made free and accessible to the majority of people. There are certain groups of people who want to acquire information; nonetheless, they are restricted because of the fine imposed in the library. For instance, the impoverished group is not given the opportunity to finish their studies. As a result, if the library can only be free to the public, therefore the impoverished can acquire simple knowledge despite the lack of education at school. They cannot be displaced to other social economic group because they have knowledge that is comparable to educated ones. The information in the public library is vast. It has resources that are being taught at the school. The free entrance of public library is beneficial in displacing people from ignorance.
	Overall, in my opinion, libraries should be free for all because it will help the community to become successful if most people are inclined in reading instead of being astray such as drinking or committing crimes. The community will develop if the majority of people are knowledgeable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1831-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-753-people-consider-sport-to-be-their-career-and-role-in-the-society",
Essay 738:
	Several sports personalities have brought fame and pride to their country, and some have been successful for considering that as a personal pursuit. Some people are convinced that sports have a significant role and purpose in uplifting the pride of a country. However, others refute that the essence of sports is to make certain people become physically fit.
	We must acknowledge the belief of others that sports have important roles in showing the talent of the different individuals. The sports have signified that a country has the ability to display their unique abilities and strengths to other such as boxing, basketball, swimming and other strenuous sports. The sports have seen as an enormous lure which has created impacts and suspense for the sport's proponents. It has made the country’s tension at ease whenever there is an Olympic match or national sports completion. For instance, whenever there is an international boxing competition between the Philippines and other countries, the attention of the supporters are diverted on the fights of their country. The international and national sports events often erase the tension and distance between nations and tribes and offer an excellent opportunity to bring people together. For instance, India and Pakistan have their own political issues but their friendship remains constant in the case of cricket sport.
	Not everyone can become professional sports personnel and for them, the sport is a great way of doing the physical exercise and remaining fit. Almost every outdoor sport requires a great deal of physical movement and it can be a great alternative of doing cumbersome exercises. It is proven that people who start doing exercises in a gym often stop doing so because of time constraint or lack of interests. But people who get involved in sports often continue this habit for a long time because of their passion for the game.
	In conclusion, people who are good at a sport take it as their career and consider it to be a good role for the others. This is to some extent is a good way of perusing a career and inspiring others. On the contrary, many others take sports activity as part of their daily exercises and do not take it as their career either because they are not optimistic about the future of the sports profession or not good enough to be a renowned sports person. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1830-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-752-some-people-believe-that-history-is-very-important",
Essay 739:
	Perhaps no subject in the world causes as much controversy as history does. In recent years, there has been a growing attitude toward understanding history which is to the largest extent beneficial for people of all walks of life. However, there is a view that argues against this and considers no roles for history. In this essay, I will look at both aspects and put forward my observation.
	It is obvious that past experience plays a vital role in every facet of human's life. Since our past experience has been tried, we are more likely to be successful in the long run. The better and successful plan is, therefore, offered. From an educational perspective, for example, many people have obtained their qualifications through numerous methods which now they completely obsolete and other innovative means of education have been replaced. In this regard, by looking at previous decades we are more willing to benefit from past experience so as to gain prosperity and make an excellent plan for our future.
	On the flip side, despite the fact that looking at history is essential to get inspiration for advancement in life, we should not overlook the sight of the fact that this might be time and money consuming. We are living in a fast-growing world and planning as well as thinking about future is the most beneficial act that we should be able to carry out. As an example, in urban planning, it is totally waste of time if history is taken into account. In addition, many materials which used in past buildings are out of access. Thus, understanding historical building cannot help to make new buildings.
	As suggested above, although a few number of people believe that history is not as necessary as other issues, I agree that understanding it has manifold positive effects on our life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1829-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-751-how-technology-has-affected-the-way-people-make-relationship",
Essay 740:
	In recent years, it is undeniable that technology has an integral part to play in our life but besides plenty of benefits that it has brought, there are many drawbacks as well, one of them is about how people have recently treated each other.
	In my opinion, the influences of technology on relationships are quite strong and the development of technology has become unfortunately negative. First of all, technology makes people change on only one side, for instance, on the Internet, perhaps he is very sociable and friendly but when it comes to real life, he is not the person whom he is used to be. Besides, one reason that explains this consequence is his shyness, because, on the Internet, he could be anyone whom he wants to be.
	Secondly, still a matter of Internet, people might too care about the relationships on their social network accounts forget who they should actually pay attention to, their family, their real friends. For example, a person who has many friends on Facebook is likely to worry about the comments and number of likes that he has.
	Last but not least, technology also makes friends’ or family’s relationships less appreciative. Because nowadays, whenever young people, especially teenagers, go out for dinner or just normally hang out, they bring their smartphones which are very convenient and have many interesting apps while they are with their friends or family, they usually focus mainly on their smart devices, so no one speaks to each other.
	In conclusion, from my perspective, technology does have a lot of advantages but in recent decades, it has become a quite negative development and had particular bad effects on people’s relationships.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1828-smoking-is-prohibited-in-public-places-in-many-countries",
Essay 741:
	Smoking and its ample consequences are widely discussed these days all over the world. Research and studies point out that the active and passive smoking are equally threatening to the individual and society. Though there is a small issue regarding the restriction: personal freedom, I hold the view that the ban and restriction on smoking, especially in public places and office settings, are totally acceptable.
	One of the obvious reasons, public smoking causes various health hazards. To be more precise, major causes of the lung, oral cancers and heart ailments is none other than tobacco smoking. Prevention is better than cure. Instead of spending a large amount of money to treat these kinds of diseases, government’s decision on banning and controlling on smoking is more economic and effective. Furthermore, passive smoking, which usually happens in public places, claims thousands of innocent people's life across the world. At this juncture, prevention of little freedom like allowing public cigarette flaming is not justifiable. To cite an example, in the USA, the public smoking ban reduces the passive smokers’ cancer rates.
	Another reason to support my view is that the public smoking restrictions decline the fire risk rate to a great extent. In other words, in this congested world, allowing of public smoking is like adding fuel to the fire. Careless handling of cigarette fire causes major fire problem. It claims not only thousands of innocent lives but also public possessions. These social problems can be wisely handled by control of public smoking restrictions. In the UK, public smoking ban immensely reduced the building fire incidents in cities is the best epitome. However, an army of people claims that this is the breach of personal freedom. Perhaps it may be true to some degree, but we cannot deny that the public safety is much more important than mild freedom block.
	To crown it all, ban and control of public smoking are beneficial, especially for the individual as well as the society. Banning public smoking will enhance the public health and safety in many ways. To consider banning smoking a huge positive impact its ignorable drawbacks are completely negligible.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1827-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-749-recycling-is-a-pointless-activity",
Essay 742:
	Nowadays, the recycling process has turned to the unwarranted activity that is implemented in almost all countries. Governments should indicate an inclination to augment policies in order to cope with waste and related to tremendous issues in advance.
	First, the things which are recycled cannot be the same in terms of the quality. During the protracted duration, they are becoming dilapidated and detrimental that can afflict our healthy gradually. Because the recycling process arises under the chemical reactions, as an implication the substances which are utilised for aiding the procedure can mingle with the certain recycling things and generate the harmful goods that we will consume them in the future. Due to it, the governments can impose some stringent rules about the preventing of the waste or such kind of problems via the reducing of the usage of the goods, the increasing of the price of these products and so on.
	On the other hand, the recycling method can be very beneficial for our environment. UnfortunateIy, the mankind does not heed to rescue the milieu from the dangerous circumstance painstakingly. Thus, they throw the goods to nature which they have already used without thinking the ramifications of it. Subsequently, it contributes to the big global issue. Albeit this challenge the recycling process can nosedive  the magnifying pollution in the world. At the same time, it is rather pertinent and bargain for some countries. The governments do not spend the supplementary money in order to produce the things again. Instead of it, this money can be invested in the new projects that are more essential.
	Taking all thing into account, it seems to me that the recycling operation has a pivotal role in the society and it ameliorates our environment. However, it is a unanimous notion that prevention is better than cure.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1826-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-748-children-begin-formal-education-at-four-years-old",
Essay 743:
	The age standard for children in entering formal school has inevitably been a controversial issue whether it is more effective to send children to school at four years old or seven or even eight years old. I personally agree to say that children need to be sent to school earlier at four years old in terms of several reasons.
	The first reason is that children tend to have a golden age period at the age of three or four. This condition is believed as the most effective year for children to start learning as well as understanding their environment. Moreover, this age standard has been successfully implemented by Finland education system which is currently claimed as the best education system in the world.
	Another considerable reason is that parents can lessen the time for children to play at home in front of the computers which clearly harm them physically and psychologically as well as create a certain disorder. In addition, sending children to school at an early age will not totally erase the children’s time to play because a school provides them with an effective teaching method which focuses on learning and playing. In the other words, children tend to achieve time to learn and play at the same time proportionally.
	On the other hand, people who believe that sending children to formal school at four years old consider several points of views in terms of the maturity of children psychology and brain which claimed inappropriate time to be forced with a certain lesson at school.
	In short, parents and schools should create a good collaboration and cooperation each other in order to avoid several drawbacks caused by this affirmative action.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1825-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-747-many-universities-charge-higher-fees-for-foreign-students",
Essay 744:
	Universities are the best place students always choose after their tertiary schooling. Most of the students prefer to study in a good university. In my point of view, universities take a large amount of money from foreign students because they have to keep their standard and I think it is fair to take more money from the foreign students.
	Firstly, universities carry out a particular standard and reputation. When students choose a selected university to study, it increases their productivity as well as overall development. The university charges huge fees for outside students so that they can have qualified and experienced lecturers to teach and mould them. There will be many facilities for the students to access like libraries, laboratories, multi-purpose halls and so on. Universities offer accommodation and food to the students. Students can achieve their dream by studying in a reputed university with an excellent professional background.
	Secondly, it is fair to take high fees from the foreign students because if they are getting the quality education and facilities it is worth to get the money from them. They have many options in subjects and it satisfies them by choosing the best university to study. On the other hand, universities do not take much payment from the citizens, they always try to care and protect their citizens by giving good quality education. Moreover, many universities prefer more opportunities for the students to grow as an individual and to get a good job in the future by giving the very good education. Many universities have a different policy for foreign students and they usually take a higher fee from them. The citizens of a country already pay a large amount of tax to the government and thus government ensures the education for their children and grandchildren. So it is totally justified that local students should pay less.  
	To sum up, universities can charge huge fees from the students and the university should make sure that they are giving the best education to the students according to their wish.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1824-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-746-contact-between-different-parts-of-the-world-has-developed-rapidly",
Essay 745:
	It is sometimes argued that increased contact and closer interrelationships between countries bring several benefits to a society and thank goes to air travel and telecommunication for this. Personally, I believe that there are also some negative effects of the above trend, as will now be explained.
	There are some downsides to increased commerce and increased relationships between nations in the world. The most significant of these disadvantages is that it can weaken national culture and traditions. The main reason is that people can easily adopt the aspects of strangers and more interesting lifestyles from foreign countries and usually neglect the traditional values. For example, a stand of Vietnamese folk songs might be gradually faded away because young Vietnamese people tend to opt for more attractive Korean music. The second disadvantage is that in the face of imported goods and services, local producers, especially in a less developed country, fail to compete with foreign ones in their own domestic market, which leads to a number of bankruptcies, then holds back society from development.
	There are some major points to make in favour of increased business and closer relationships worldwide. Firstly, it can drive the world's economy forward. Granted, big corporations such as Microsoft and Apple can easily expand their branches in any corners of the world, thanks to increased business interaction, which can also create more employment opportunities, especially in a third-world country. Secondly, revenues from tourist activities can contribute to the economic growth. Undoubtedly, tourism jobs such as photographers and tour guides can help increase income for the locals. Finally, the more we share habits, products and services, the better we understand each other, and this reduces prejudice against other nations.
	In conclusion, I believe that the closer contact and increased commerce worldwide bring about both cons and pros and cheap air flights and mobile communication have accelerated that.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1823-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-745-impose-a-heavy-tax-on-private-car-owners-to-improve-the-public-transportation",
Essay 746:
	With the growing population all over the world, many cities are facing too much traffic problems including pollution and congestion. One of the solutions to this problem is the setting of a new tax to car owners. In return, this money could be used to improve public transports and roads. This essay will discuss advantages and disadvantages of this solution.
	First of all, the fact to tax private car owners heavily might deter plenty of drivers and car owners using their own vehicles and make them use more public transports in their city. The setting of this new tax could lead to a decrease of congestion and pollution issues.
	Furthermore, the harvested money from this new law will be used to remove less efficient and old transports and improve the degree of safety within the city. Indeed, we all know that a lot of people are afraid of public transports at night because of their lack of security. An improvement on this field can encourage other habitats to use public transportation.
	However, such a tax also contains disadvantages. Some inhabitants will not agree with this new law because it is another amount to pay at the end of the month. Besides, some people have no choice but to use their own cars to get to their working place which sometimes is located outside the cities where public transports are not available. It will also bring problems for those who live in the countryside and work in cities.
	To conclude, taxing private car owners could be a solution to the congestion and pollution problems by encouraging the use of public transports and imposing taxes only to rich populations who live in the city area would be a better solution, in my opinion.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1822-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-744-nuclear-technology-can-be-used-for-the-advancement-and-betterment-of-the-world",
Essay 747:
	It is believed that the development of nuclear technology should not be used for any destructive purposes, and it should only be used for some constructive activities. I personally agree with the statement and the following essay will discuss in details about the nuclear technology.
	To begin with, it is true that nuclear technology should only be used for some positive activities since it could be a serious threat for human kinds. The technology of nuclear can be utilised as a deadly weapon since it could be used to kill tens of thousands of people in just a few minutes. Besides that, the leakage of the nuclear plants could also give negative effect to human's health, as the radiation could increase the risk of down syndrome and cancer. One of the famous examples is the Chernobyl tragedy which had killed millions of Soviet people. Therefore, the United Nations should strictly monitor and control on countries that used nuclear technology.
	In spite of its negative effects, the nuclear technology could be beneficial for mankind. As the world still depending on fossil fuel as the main source of electricity these days, the nuclear technology could be used as a power plant. Many scientists have proven that nuclear electricity plant is more efficient and friendlier to the environment, as it produces less carbon. Besides that, some medical practitioners have used nuclear technology as one of the alternative methods for curing some diseases. Therefore, the technology of nuclear could be useful for the human being as long as it is used safely and proportionately.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that nuclear technology could be used for constructive or destructive purposes. I support that the technology should only be used for positive activities such as the power plant or as a medical treatment, and never be used for any negative purpose since it could be a serious threat for human's civilisation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1821-nowadays-the-zoos-have-no-useful-purpose",
Essay 748:
	It is true that some people believe that Zoos have no beneficial use in our lives. In my opinion, I completely disagree with this view. For a variety of reasons, it would be wrong to think that Zoos are useless. Zoos have environmental, economical, and personal perspectives.
	Environmentally, zoos play an important role in wildlife conservation. They allow scientists to study animals and their behaviours. So, they help to protect endangered species like pandas and zebras from predators and humans who hunt animals for commodities such as tusk and fur. By protecting wildlife we maintain the natural balance of all life on the earth.
	Secondly, from an economic perspective, zoos employ large numbers of people. As a result, they provide job opportunities and income for the local areas. The money raised can be used for conservation projects and research.
	Finally, from a personal perspective, zoos are one of the important educational, interesting, and fun tools. They make a great day out for families to escape the pressure of life. Children, in particular, enjoy learning about animals.  Zoos have an important role in educating the public, helping them to understand the world around them, and enabling them to appreciate wild animals up close. Also, seeing an animal in person is a much more personal and more memorable experience than seeing that animal in a nature documentary. This exposure and education motivate people to protect the animals.
	For the reasons mentioned above, I believe that Zoos play an important role in our life nowadays, environmentally, personally, and economically. And we should do everything we can to protect them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1820-should-parents-read-or-tell-stories-to-their-children",
Essay 749:
	Children and teenagers are always fond of tales. This is one of the key reasons why many parents tell/read them bedtime stories. Whether the guardian should narrate stories for their kid or they should be left to watch TV/movies, has been one of the most debated topics of the recent times. Some people would argue that storytelling creates a great bonding between the children and their parents. Others claim that by this act children can never become self-dependent. In this essay both the aspects of this statement would be discussed.
	Firstly, it is quite evident that parents who narrate tales to their children spend more time with them, as compared to those who don't. This in a way strengthens their relationship. For instance, research around the world has shown that children are more attached to those individuals who spend more time with them. Thus, it is quite apparent that storytelling does play a key role in relationship building between the children and their parents.
	Moreover, some argue that telling stories and in turn, spending more time with the kids does make them dependent on their parents. Take for example; the children who can keep themselves busy with books, movies etc. can adjust themselves in isolation from their parents if the situation demands so. Thus, it will help them grow personally and make them self-dependent.
	After analysing both the aspects of this argument, it is quite evident that storytelling makes children highly dependent on their parents. But the effects it has on relationship building is something which cannot be neglected. Thus, it can be concluded that storytelling is very rewarding in terms of building relationships and every parent should indulge themselves in it. It is also believed that in the coming future more and more parents will realise the importance of storytelling and will engage themselves with their kids.
Essay 750:
	Parents obviously play a major role in the way that develops their relationship with their children as they get older. Many people believe that parents should read or tell stories to their kids, while, others encourage that children may read books, watch TV or movies without parents. I strongly believe that parents can significantly impact on a child's development with their tales. These arguments will be analysed prior to coming to a reasoned conclusion.
	One of the main benefits of the tales told by the parents is that they talk only good sides of stories. For example, their tales are very interesting for their children. They tell about kings, animals, environments which kids can easily understand and believe. In addition, if the children listen to stories from their parents, they would be obedience to them. In this case, it can give more benefits for parents to control their children.
	On the other hand, if children are encouraged for doing these things by themselves, it can lead to some drawbacks. For instance, if the children have access to television or the internet, it may bring bad fluency on their behaviour. On this way, they might develop bad and violent manners and behaviours. Moreover, today's media provide a lot of shows which are about to make a bundle. These kinds of broadcasts impact on a child's mind. So, they start to think about how they can make more money without difficulty. For this reason, they may lose their good study sphere.
	In conclusion, after analysing these two points of view, it is believed that parent's tales can provide a supportive, secure, and nurturing environment and interaction with kids, which is crucial for a child to become a good adult.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1819-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-741-as-children-become-adults-their-social-behaviour-changes",
Essay 751:
	Nowadays, it is a ubiquitous notion that the children’s social conduct is changing significantly in some ways as they are becoming adults. There are manifold alterations between the adults and young’s behaviour. In this essay, I will cite some appropriate points about this issue and give my opinion that whether these changes tend to negative or positive direction.
	Actually, people's behaviours are contingent upon their ages. The young people are more energetic and of course, it influences to their life perspectives. As bad luck would have it, sometimes the young are being self-righteous despite their wrong manners. Most time their attitudes become obdurate, as a repercussion of it, they squabble with each other over the trivial peccadillos.
	On the other hand, the adults' characters differ from the young utterly. They are much more sophisticated in terms of the life experience. That is why they fathom everything thoroughly. It behoves the young to get advice from the adults in order to comprehend the life in depth. At the same time, the grown-up’s behaviour are more tranquil and congenial in the society and it is undoubtfully true that in the essence of each stupendous achievement belonging to any young person stands the old’s aid and advice.
	Sometimes as children are getting older, the changes which are encompassed their behaviour tend to the bad way. They feel so that they can do everything and as a result, it contributes to the generating of the feeling of tremendous brash. However, as they become adults, this process inculcates them to garner the new life experiences in the mankind.
	Taking all things into account, it seems to me that the changes related  to children’s attitude depend on their trait much more than their age. Because each individual is represented with his character and this personality qualification starts with the time he is born and terminates via the death.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1818-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-740-smoking-should-be-banned-in-public-places",
Essay 752:
	The earlier we can ban  smoking in public places, the better it would be for the human kind. Having foreseen the same, many offices and governing bodies imposed a strict ban on public smoking. This measure is generally applauded by the majority of mass. However, the opposing minority interrupt this ban as an act of arrest on one's free will. Let us discourse on this moot issue below.
	It is generally agreed and even proven with scientific studies, that smoking is injurious to health. Health problems that smoking can induce are numerous. Cancer is among the major detrimental effects of smoking on one’s health.  As it is rightly displayed on the cigar packets , smoking is one of the primary factors leading to cancer. Furthermore, effects of smoking on the systemic and peripheral circulation in the human body are appalling, as put forward by medical experts. The havoc of this insane habit is so horrifying, that research points towards its possible harmful effects on unborn children, even. Smoking is considered as a culprit among the many, behind the congenital birth defects and anomalies.
	Another factor significant to this context would be the financial constraints imposed by smoking. In many developing countries, where people work on daily wages, the habit of smoking has an atrocious impact on their quality of life. In the majority of the mediocre families, around the world, smoking drains the significant part of their family budgets. For example, I witnessed many problems with reference to my father being a chronic smoker and the financial crisis it caused.
	The amount of carbon and other toxic elements exhaled to the atmosphere by active smokers has reached such dizzy heights that its effect on passive smokers is more or less a reality now. In fact, the effect of first-hand smoke is seen permeable to even the second and third-hand smokers in the spectrum. The significance of the public ban on smoking is not just justifying but a necessity as it calls for. As a result, it is widely banned in some offices and institutions. Awareness programmes are being conducted all around the world against this habit.
	Though the public ban on smoking is an individual constraint to one's freedom, considering the passive effects of smoking I would strongly accord win the ban. In my view, this would be a punitive measure to safeguard the health and wealth of the public or the society.
Essay 753:
	Smoking has inevitably been a concern of governments around the globe considering how to manage and educate smoking people. This is due largely to the danger of the substance contained in the cigarettes, nicotine. As its drawback may also occur for the people near the smokers, policies related to this, particularly in public places, should be taken into account; whether it should be banned or not.
	On the other hand, people who have currently been addicted to smoke would feel hard to avoid smoking in such places. As a result, they may smoke breaking the rule and not even feeling guilty. For this reason, there are two steps then to encounter this probable emerging problem. First, some strict law and appropriate punishment such as to pay more tax or to give any charity orphans or others needing. Second, education is one of the most prominent and essential ways to change peoples’ belief in terms of having their cigarette burnt.
	However, banning such activity in public places is not merely a way to prevent others from the harms of smokes, but it will, to a larger extent, possibly be able to elevate people’s awareness of how dangerous smoking is.
	To sum up, despite being a hard thing for smokers to not smoke, the policy which bans smoking in public places should be applied in order to save others. Nonetheless, people’s education in terms of the drawbacks of smoking is a part of this aim.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1817-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-739-many-criminals-commit-crimes-after-they-were-set-free",
Essay 754:
	It is suggested from a research that the majority of criminals commit crimes when released from jails and this is a very dangerous thing to the society nowadays. I think we should make some regulations and practices to avoid happening this.
	The current situation is very worse due to this increasing number of crimes in the world everywhere. Most of the crimes are being done by criminals who were sent to the prison earlier. And this thing gives a feeling to me that if criminals commit crimes, again and again, there is a problem in our punishment system. Therefore government and people should take some actions on this.
	As I mentioned above, there might be many reasons for occurring crimes in the society. Firstly, criminals do not have a feeling about the society, culture and religion. Moreover, there is no humanity that can be seen in these criminals. So the Government can put some practices of brainwashing sessions to the prisoners on humanity, culture and other valuable things. Furthermore, it is better if there are some kind of sessions about the art, nature etc. Simply, I would like to highlight that criminals are also human beings and we have to make them think and feel properly before releasing them.
	Secondly, there might be a big punishment level rather than current one, according to the crime levels. Then people will fear to commit crimes continuously including prisoners who were set free.
	Thirdly, I think it would be great if the jail authority introduces an evaluation process of criminals inside the prison to identify who the better ones before releasing them are. So that we can have a mechanism to keep bad ones inside the prison until they come to a good mindset.
	To sum up, I think these crimes are happening due to the bad attitude of criminals. So when we are going to release a criminal, we have to make sure that this person might not commit a crime again when he is set free. To do this, the government has to take some actions inside the prison and then crime level might be controlled.
Essay 755:
	Nowadays in many countries, the crime rate is at a mammoth rate. Once the criminal is set free from prison, they will do the crime again. There are a number of reasons for this. I will discuss this in the below paragraphs.
	Firstly, when the criminals are sent to prison, if they become close to criminals   who committed notorious crimes, they will try to follow them. Also, in some jails, the criminals do some illegal activities by sitting in jail itself. Sometimes, they bring drugs inside the jail premises itself. If the criminals who committed a crime for the first time comes in contact with these criminals, they slowly become drug addicted. This not only disturbs their mind in a negative way as well, but they will not correct themselves once they are released from jail.
	Secondly, the society does not accept criminals once they are released. There are cases when even a family will get isolated from criminals.  Also, criminals find it very difficult to get jobs. This makes the criminal's mental upset and for the survival, they repeat the crime again and again.
	In order to solve this problem, the government should take some steps. Firstly, in jail, the system should be made in such a way that, the criminals will not indulge themselves in illegal activities. They should be monitored continuously inside the jail. Also, there should be cultural, spiritual programs organised in jail, so that the criminals mind gets prepared when they are released. In addition, criminals who are well talented in some activities like sports, arts, studies etc, should be encouraged. Convicts should be equipped with some useful skills during the detention period, as this will help them for survival after they released. One of the examples would be giving training on technical courses like plumbing or mechanical courses (Automobile repairs) or electronic repair courses etc. Thirdly, awareness should be created in the society so that the criminals are treated as normal human being's once they rejoin the society. There should be job opportunities given to the criminals depends on their talent and behaviour.
	To sum up, in my opinion, prevention is always better than cure. Criminals are like us, they are human beings. Some of them might commit crime due to the fact that situation makes them do. The government should create enough employment opportunities so that no one is unemployed. Also, there should be strict rules made about drug mafia so that no one gets into drug addiction. If the government takes these steps very effectively, we can expect crime free society in the near future.
Essay 756:
	In today’s modern world, the crime rate in everywhere around the globe is increasing at an alarming rate. A recent report research has shown that the continual growth in crime rate is significantly due to a large proportion of criminals will re-offend when they are released from prison. It is, therefore, important for us to establish the practical ways to tackle this problem.
	To some extent, I believe that if there is rehabilitation being done in jail, the criminals are unlikely to commit the crime again after they are out of the prison. Rehabilitation is crucial and must be carried out in jail to educate them what are the good values and what are the bad. This action will further encourage them to think about what they have done over the years. Once they realise what they did in the past are wrong, they will regret and may not re-offend whatsoever.
	Nevertheless, I have brainstormed and come out with the ideas that could be proved useful in kerbing this problem. To begin, there should be a change in the crime-related legislation. Those who commit serious crimes should be given a lengthy sentence to prison so that they have no opportunity to re-offend. Undoubtedly, it will indirectly become a deterrent to the would-be offender and thus helps to reduce the possibility of commit crimes after they are released from jail. In addition, the government should also arrange paid job to the criminals after they set free from prison, it is owing to the reason that they will not be facing financial hardships. According to a recent study conducted in Malaysia, most of the criminals will re-offend only when they have financial problems.
	In conclusion, I believe there are tonnes of ways government can take to cope with this problem and most of the criminals will not commit crimes again if they were given a chance to contribute to society like everyone else do and have a proper job to earn a living.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1815-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-738-it-is-more-important-to-have-an-enjoyable-job-than-to-earn-a-lot-of-money",
Essay 757:
	Recently, there is an ongoing debate whether it is important to get a good job environment and pleasing job and or to get a job with good wages. I believe the way people’s thinking influences is somehow to consider their decisions for this matter, especially their definitions in happiness and satisfaction in the job. This essay, as my opinion leads to, will try to elaborate both views with some considerations as I agree that enjoyable job is better.
	Some of the people have a belief that money can bring anything including happiness. They have dreams to buy luxury goods such as big houses, limited edition cars, updated gadgets or even to collect prestige belongings like rare paintings, sculptures, and something like that, and through that they will feel happy because their stratification in society increasing. These kinds of mindsets can lead to the acknowledgement that bigger payment jobs are better.
	However, to think materialism as the goal of life is not relevant in my point of view because enjoyment might not be bought by a piece of papers called dollars. Psychologists explained that if we think money can afford anything, it will be a well-known agreement that the rich are the society class gaining the happiest life, but in the fact, in some ways, tells dissimilar. The rich have more risks to get problems in their families, in educating their children, and other relating impacts which all of them are similarly inevitable. This mindset, the way of thinking that money cannot afford happiness, can be a locomotive for the believers for finding a job which is convenient to avoid the dire effects. They will look for the job with appropriate tasks and deadlines and also consider the environment of business even with a low standard of wages. With happiness, they can get calmness and as a result, they can save money to not to buy for anti-stressed drugs as well as to get into excessive entertainment programs.
	To sum up, people consider happiness as an input for finding jobs and it will always be better to be a breadwinner in a job that someone can find convenient in it.
Essay 758:
	In recent days, there is an ongoing debate whether the main factor of working is a salary or an enjoyable environment. Some assert that having high income will help people solving the economic problems, while the others believe that gaining happiness is not only because of having much money but the important one is working in a friendly place. I personally reckon that both views are essential things but I think having enjoyable work is the most important one. Therefore, I will support my view with some considerations.
	People obtaining high income will be able to encounter their financial problems because they can fulfil their daily needs. They believe that money can buy happiness because people will be able to buy some luxury things which amuse them. However, it can make them money oriented people. They spend much time only for working consequently they have no time with their family or even their own. Furthermore, they will be full of stress in accomplishing their workload.
	On the other hand, people who overly enjoy their time in working field will consider their jobs as something which they love to do so because it is supported by the environment. It can increase their motivation in finishing the workloads. Taken the example, when an employee is encouraged by the others around them, they will try to give their best in their jobs. Moreover, it can increase the sense of belonging towards their works.
	To sum up, having high salary is not only the primary factor to gain a bright future life, but it also needs affection in the workplace.
Essay 759:
	Nowadays, most people go to college and university to study a field they might like in order to have a good and enjoyable job. However, money is still an important factor in a job selection, and several people argue that earning money is more important than an enjoyable job.
	On the one hand, it is true that in a way, money leads to a better life quality. With more money we can, for instance, consume more, buy good quality products, go on holidays and do numerous activities. All these things contribute to a more enjoyable life. Even though the job we do does not completely satisfy us, all the other moments apart from our job time will be filled with exciting things. The purpose is to reach well-being and to some extent happiness and money is a way to do it.
	On the other hand, although money is a way to reach happiness, it may be not enough. It is not by chance that nowadays people are seeking a job that fit their interests. It is a tendency that increases more and more in western countries. For example, universities provide a wider range of topics and programs every year in order to answer the question that every young wonder: "What I want to do of my life?" In some cases, some decide to quit their job, even well paid, because they evolve in an environment they do not like. This is well the proof that money cannot satisfy all our needs.
	In conclusion, I personally think that even though money can help to have a better life, it cannot completely lead to happiness. We spend the major part of our life at work and people are more and more aware that this part has to be enjoyable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1814-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-737-television-is-dangerous-because-it-destroys-family-life",
Essay 760:
	It is certainly true that television has become a basic tool to damage family’s time and communication in society. In addition, while television is extremely useful for leisure time, I do agree with the idea that they already damaged ways of connection between people.
	Everything in life has its benefits and its drawbacks, but for television, I think that its drawbacks are away more than its benefits. Nowadays, television’s first and foremost job is separation, all kind of separation. It damages connection between families, for instance, the family now gather for mainly two reasons; first one is for eating while watching television and the second one is to sit down together watching a movie as a family time. Both ways lack any conversation and family speech of any kind.
	Whenever, the television is present the talk is absent, friends talking to each other through watching matches instead of meeting at anyone’s house. Physical and sociological health have been affected by television .Television has destroyed the health of kids since they are no longer making any physical activities that help their own health and build up their own mind. Thoughts and ethics are now different than they had before, that’s because children learn everything from their favourite movie or series or both. From this side, television began to replace some of the parent’s work, like teaching their children right concepts, learn how to communicate with people outside and other social skills.    
	To conclude, television has been invented so people can find something to do or watch better than sitting alone, alternatively, television just give people distance from their society, friends and relatives. Television now breaks up and separate a part family, however, one of the main goals for television invention is to build up stronger relationships between people not only in one country but also all over the world and to exchange cultures.
Essay 761:
	Nowadays, television is undoubtedly one of the most convenient modes of delivering infotainment. It has significantly impacted the lives of people by taking their chunks of time from their daily routine life. It has been argued that television has started threatening the future of the family and social life as well as minimising the instinct of community. This would be proven by analysing the consequences of unrealistic life being telecasted on TV channels as well wastage of precious time while watching the TV programs.
	Firstly, the programs aired on TV channels are usually far away from the reality. Especially, when we take an example of entertainment programs in which the programs are far from the reality not representing the actual culture and society problems. Further, these sought of programs tend to change the perception of people and tend to influence their lives in a negative way making them think in the opposite direction. It is obvious by looking at the example that these impractical programs are pushing people away from the real world. Thus, it can be concluded that unrealistic programs are seriously creating a dent in the family and social life.
	Secondly, the telecasted programs are draining people precious time. The golden time they can utilise with their families to discuss issues like children education, financial matters, future plans etc. For instance, it has been proven that the families which don’t spend time with each other can be a source of rising tensions and distances consequently, the family life will get affected. This example shows that loss of time can be a major problem for people and it is depriving them with the essence of a single community.
	To conclude, the gloomy picture of life being shown on TV and valuable time being wasted by watching TV has proven to be a major hit on family and social life. I strongly believe, the excessive use of TV by the general public has compromised the lives of people by making them not only isolated from the society but also from their immediate family. In near future also, it is highly unlikely that viewership of television will decrease due to an ever growing interest of people in it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1812-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-736-the-purpose-of-museums-is-to-educate",
Essay 762:
	Normally, museums are considered to have a vital function in serving their public for educational purpose, yet many museum goers also aim to seek an entertainment experience, which, I believe, is nearly impossible to end up with a 'purely entertaining' experience.  
	There is no doubt that a primary role of museums is to educate the public. They provide tangible objects and collections that can be genuinely seen and touched by students. This provides excellent field trips for extensions of a classroom as well as enhancing their curriculum. If they were changed to be entertaining-oriented to attract more visitors, then the quality of art or a history would probably be degraded or distorted, hence weakening the function of educating. Eventually, museums would be nothing less like theme parks, aiming to profits generating rather than benefiting the public.  
	However, there is also another voice claiming that museums should be interesting and playful, providing a relaxing place for people to have fun in their leisure time. Once they are solely built for learning without even a little of enjoyment, they would lose popularity and even financial support due to failing to attract enough visitors.
	My view is that education and entertainment don't necessarily have to be mutually exclusive motivations for coming to the museum, but they can be integrated to achieve both aims. In fact, from our own school experience, we are more likely to be motivated to explore if content is truly entertaining, and meanwhile, if we can gain something meaningful through recreation, then it's a win-win situation.
	Nevertheless, at their core, museums are educational institutions, though by a unique and interesting way which differs from a traditional one in schools.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1811-young-people-in-modern-world-have-more-power",
Essay 763:
	Irrespective of nationality, location or religion, back in time, the old ones were considered the base of the society. No doubt, nowadays, the roles have exchanged, with the young people becoming more and more powerful and influential.
	To begin with, one of the reasons this phenomenon took place is the increasing competitiveness of the modern world. The recent criteria are tougher and tougher, which means that more allotted time by humans is required. While young people tend to invest a lot of their time in things such as academics or work, older people have usually a family and more affairs to deal with. Thus the productivity of young people is higher, resulting in a more implicated and influent generation.
	Secondly, the modern environment is in continuous change, which means that people nowadays must adapt quicker and better. As an example, take the accent which is put on multi-disciplinary, lifelong training, or the fact that students are prepared for jobs that do not merely exist yet. All these are supported better by younger people, and the invaluable proof is, for example, the shrewdness with which a child learns how to work on a computer, an action almost impossible for some adults. Considering these abilities of adoption, it becomes obvious why young people tend to occupy more and more important places in society.
	Conversely, the young generation may become disrespectful to adults, on the basis of their achievements. The youngster especially may consider that they do not have anything to learn from older people, resulting in a continuous intellectual falling.
	Overall, the adaptation capacities alongside with the fact that young people have more time to spend are the main reasons for youngers' power. The consequence may be, unfortunately, quite bad.
Essay 764:
	To begin with, youngsters are fit for the jobs that require technological soundness. They tend to be curious about the modern changes, therefore they are more likely to adapt to it. Due to this adjustment process, they invest their time learning and applying to institutions that can provide opportunities for them. Furthermore, present young generations are enthusiastic, thus they are more observant with the changes on how this transformation help the society.
	Second, they are physically fit for the job, since this change results in tons of stressors. Numerous studies show that today's individuals can still be productive with only four to six hours of sleep. Since they invest more of their time with research and discovering new ideas, then they are more capable of handling bigger responsibilities compared to the previous young generations and present older generation. Moreover, past youngsters were more focus on their families and the commitment but this is not the case today. Youngsters are becoming entrepreneurs and using their knowledge to become successful.
	On the contrary, this transformation may create a negative impact on the relationship between the old and young group. For example, young people may create distant relationships with the old generation, since they know that they are ahead in terms of learning and adapting to change.
	To conclude, young people are now dominating the technological world and as a result, the old generation is now experiencing less importance. However, youngsters should always respect the elder people and maintain a steady relationship with them for a better society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1810-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-734-modern-technology-has-given-us-more-leisure-time-than-before",
Essay 765:
	With the advent of the 21st century, technology has leapt to a level that was unimaginable only even 50 years ago. The question is whether latest technology has provided us more free time than previous generations or not. In my view, people's leisure time has been narrowing as a result of the tremendous advance in modern technology.
	In today's modernised era, technological gadgets make our lives faster, easier and more convenient. For example, dishwasher, a labour-saving device in the home fetches people more recreational time. In addition, almost all modern kitchens have several electrical appliances that save our time.
	However, people's leisure lives are continuously eroded because of the ubiquity of modern technological tools, such as computers with internet access and telecommunications equipment. These inventions expose the minds to spend more of their daily time. It is noteworthy that people now take fewer and shorter vacations following the increase in the number of technology-based activities. For instance, cell phones and laptops make people accessible to their superiors wherever they go. What is more, people seem to be more ambitious these days, and they want a better quality of life for their families. This means that both parents usually need to work full-time. So, it can be said that the time budget is burdened because more time should be invested in activities that previously ignored.
	In conclusion, while there are some reasons to believe that people now get more free time in the development of technology, my own view is that the amount of leisure time has decreased to a great extent over the last decade.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1809-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-733-the-main-reason-people-go-to-work-is-to-earn-money",
Essay 766:
	It is true that the principle idea of occupation is to get the salary. People usually prefer those jobs that offer high wages and facilities. However, I agree with the statement to some extent. I reckon that, money would be the prime concern of work, nevertheless, it also provides the meaning of our existence.
	Firstly, the value of money is almost vivid to all. For example, since ancient time, coins were used as salary in turn to buy food and clothes. The same trend we can see in our present world, hence money is a crucial factor to survive. People also work to support their family, so that they could pay for their basic necessities, such as accommodation, education costs, food, tax, bills etc. Additionally, many people work to secure their future prospect. If we no longer needed money, I doubt people will choose to continue their jobs.
	On the other hand, work plays a vital role to embark upon a ship which has a definite meaning of its excursion. Moreover, we can assume the actual value of life. For instance, an inactive life leads to boredom, followed by loneliness and depression. The activity provides actual direction and motivation in order to pursue exact goals of our life. To add with, workless life may distract the person towards explicable acts, hence in some cases, people may find themselves in traps of addiction that may draw numerous hassles for both individual and society.
	To sum up, it is undeniable that, people’s initials for work is, in order to earn money but it is rather important to run a meaningful life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1808-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-732-people-are-under-pressure-nowadays-and-their-lives-are-becoming-stressful",
Essay 767:
	The life of humans in today's society is becoming more and more stressful. People have to face many problems and overcome a lot of hurdles to live in the current society. There are a couple of reasons for this miserable life, some have family issues and some have office disturbance and while others have business disputes. In this essay, I will discuss some key reasons for stressful life and in the end, I will give solutions to the situation.
	Firstly, the main problem which is causing our lives more problematic is the traffic problem, whether you have to go to college, school or office, have to overcome the traffic congestion, blockage or line-in in at the traffic signals. Heavy rush at roads causes the stress and when they reach their destination still they are feeling the miseries of the route, and at the end, they are not so fresh to start their day. The same situation while going back home adding up to the office tension and resulting in home fights.
	Secondly, the household problems are adding a huge part in stressful life. When you have less income than your expenditure than problems start in your married life and having one kid adds up the tension. You always worry about grocery, garments, rents and bills; these all necessities dominate your income and leave you with only tensions.
	These problems could be eradicated wisely by taking decisions. You can overcome traffic problems by shifting nearer to your office or business. The government can balance this issue by building multi-tier flats in nearby commercial areas or commuting transports or trams to office thus reducing the travel time and miseries. Another step Government should be taking is by lowering the bills and grocery items and setting the minimum wages for the general public. But eventually, every person should have to take steps to remove the stress by own efforts or helping each other to live a happy life.
Essay 768:
	The modern world struggles for existence is the key to one's success. Apparently, this has made the life of every individual a highly stressful one. There are many aspects attributing to this struggle like health reasons, financial insecurity, work pressure etc. Serious measures need to be taken to overcome this stress. Today those areas will be discussed in details.
	Firstly, a healthy life is the precursor to happiness. So, the major contributor towards the stress in a normal person's life is their unhealthy condition. For instance, an employee who due to health reasons takes a week off from work, get a lot of work pressure when rejoins the organisation, hence, leading toward an enormous stress. Moreover, studies all around the world have proved that individuals in poor financial condition lead a more stressful life when compared to the wealthy one. For example, a daily worker who just manages to earn enough for his/her daily meals always has a tension of missing one day's wage. Thus, after analysing the above points we are in a position to state that poor health and wealth condition catalyses to the stress of a person.
	Now once we have discovered the reasons leading to stress, it's time to discuss the preventive majors for it. The entity playing the key role in stress control is the government. If the government is well managed and they have proper plans in place to overcome the health and wealth uncertainty of every individual, then the stress does automatically reduce. For example, if a poor worker doesn't have to worry about his one day's wage loss then they can lead their life more peacefully. Hence, we can say that primarily the government needs to implement policies which will be attributing towards stress prevention.
	After analysing the reasons for the stress and ways to overcome it, we can safely conclude that the health and wealth are the most important reasons attributing towards stress and the same can be solved by the few changes in the government policies. It is also believed that in future government will make a note and work towards this very critical issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1807-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-731-nowadays-animal-experiments-are-widely-used-to-develop-new-medicines",
Essay 769:
	It is true that animals are used for research in a variety of sitting, including tests to determine the safety of drugs, cosmetics and other substances. Although reasons can be given to justify this view, I personally believe that these experiments should be banned because it is ethically unacceptable.
	There are several reasons why some people support using the animal in the medical research and other products testing. Firstly, the human is the important being on the planet so everything should be done to ensure human safety and survival. Animal testing enables scientific and researchers to test the safety of medication and other substance with which humans have regular contacts. Drugs, for instance, may pose significant harm to humans, so testing them on animals first give researchers good chance to determine drug safety before human trials are performed.
	Secondly, researchers aim to minimise the suffering that animals experience in experiments by giving painkiller and anesthetic drugs. However, I would strongly agree with those who believe that animal experiments should be banned. Animal right activists (who defend animal right) argue that the lives of animals should be respected. The benefits of research using animals do not justify the suffering caused and the ethical debate against animals testing. Also, there are alternative non-animals methods of testing. For instance, computerised human - patient simulators and In vitro testing which is defined as a research using human cells and tissue can be used instead of using animals.
	In conclusion, there are some convincing arguments for and against animal testing, but I strongly believe that we as humans have no moral right to do experiments on animals and we should do everything we can to protect them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1806-what-are-the-reasons-behind-the-stressful-life",
Essay 770:
	The world today is inevitably becoming more and more competitive. To cope with this competitive world, people have to keep pace with it. Therefore, some people think that lives have become more stressful than before. In this essay, the causes behind this and the possible ways to tackle the problem will be discussed in detail.
	In today's high-tech world, there is so much to do for people. People are busy and have no time for anything else. This has, however, impacted the lives of many individuals from children to adults, rich to poor. Firstly, children are anxious about facing the world in future. Therefore, to do this effectively they are fighting for the top position in universities and colleges with their counterparts. This, in turn, leads to the stress of achieving the goal in life. Lack of respect and light bonding in the family often contribute to a stressful life for adolescence. Sometimes the drug abuse issue by a family member ruins the peacefulness of the whole family.  
	On the other hand, adults, who have already acquired knowledge and currently in a job, face the tension of salary to satisfy their needs and fulfil their desires. Job satisfaction and the low income they earn is another factor causing stress. Furthermore, life also becomes stressful for those who are unemployed. Interestingly, people who are rich, well to do and have everything in life, also face problems likely insecurity. This is due to the fact that the crime rate is increasing day by day.
	Hence, there can be an endless number of reasons behind this. Nevertheless, these problems could be tackled to some extent by enforcing a few laws and regulations. For example, the government should take strict action against theft and criminals. They should be given acceptable punishment for the crime they commit. Secondly, patrolling should be increased in the areas where the crime rate is high. Moving onto the problems of competition and salaries, jobs should not be provided only on the basis of marks and salaries should be increased to some extent with the extra provision of rewards and incentives. Lastly, the unemployment problem should be dealt with and new job opportunities should be opened up for those unemployed.
	To sum up, challenges and problems are part of life. Everyone has to face it someday. According to my opinion, it should be handled bravely and by making a few practical changes so as to overcome the stress caused by it.
Essay 771:
	It is believed that the daily lives of mankind have become more stressful these days. There are various reasons that have caused the situation, and the following essay will discuss in details the causes and some of the ways to address the issue.
	It is true that the daily routines of people's lives are becoming more stressful nowadays, especially for those who live in big cities, such as in New York, Singapore or Jakarta. One of the factors that have caused the stress is work pressure. Due to globalisation and the free trade zone, business competition is getting tougher these days and it has increased the workload of many employees. Besides that, density and traffic have also contributed to the problem as well. Many people have to commute to work at the earliest time of the day and come home late at night to avoid traffic. As a consequence, many of these people are exhausted, frustrated and burn out with their daily lives.
	There are several things that governments could do to solve the issue. Firstly, as the world economy develops, governments should strictly monitor and review employers' treatment of their labours. Governments must ensure that companies have been employing their labours at proportionate working hours to reduce the stress level and to avoid any fatal work accidents. Secondly, governments should also expand their long-term development plan, by developing new areas. By expanding new areas, it is hoped that some of the city people will move to new areas, and it will reduce the density and traffic issues which have caused stress. Thirdly, governments should also add more public facilities, such as playgrounds, parks and sports fields for their residents. It is a fact that doing some recreational and sports activities could reduce the stress level.
	In conclusion, many experts believe that the day to day lives of people have become more stressful. There are some factors that have caused problems such as tight business competition, density and traffic problems. However, there are some steps that governments could do to reduce the stress level, and some of them would be by monitoring the companies, expanding new areas and provide more recreational facilities for the public.      
Essay 772:
	These days, stress is getting the more serious problem that people face and the temp of the enormous rise of this issue is turning into a tremendous challenge. This essay will discuss the causes as well as examine the solutions for dealing with this issue.
	It is obvious that today’s modern and complicated world brings an immense amount of stressful pressure on individuals than it was in the past. Firstly, a highly competitive work environment stresses people in a greater way, while previously seeking a job and survival mechanism in the workplace was not too hard.   Additionally, because the current necessity for women to go to work and, at the same time, to be a good wife as well as successfully raise children makes their lives more stressful. Moreover, increasing the level of women’s responsibilities puts enormous pressure on men who still need to earn and share the responsibilities with women.
	However, there are ways to tackle such problems. The main solution could be introduced by the government. For example, it can make the problem of seeking a job less stressful by creating more workplaces and organising agencies to help potential employees meet their future job. Also, the government can create more social organisations that help families share the responsibilities of raising children.
	To sum up, it is evident that the level of pressure that makes persons feel more stressed is gaining momentum. There are several causes leading to it such as hard to find a job and the fear of losing it as well as growing responsibilities on families. In spite of that, various solutions exist to mitigate these issues.
Essay 773:
	In the twenty-first century, it is admittedly, apparent that the lives of people around the globe are becoming harsher which eventually cause the citizens to become more stressed. It is important to establish the causes and effective ways of solving the problem.
	Undoubtedly, following the development of nations, the world has become more competitive in terms of career for adults and study for youngsters. Nowadays, employees are expected to do more work as compared to previous days in order to secure a decent job. They may work overtime most of the working days without being paid extra by the company just to finish off loads of work. In addition, students are also becoming more stressed as they are sent by their parents to attend extra tuition classes so that there are improvements in their academic performance.
	Furthermore, people, these days are more status-conscious and materialistic. Every minute they are thinking of ways to earn more money so that they may become affluent one day which allows them to fulfil their own demand. They believe money is the best tool to gain happiness but in fact, they are wrong. These are the reasons why citizens are more stressed than previously.
	However, there are tonnes of ways which could prove useful in kerbing this problem. Wise time management is crucial for everyone to have an organised and well-planned timetable. By doing so, people have a specific time of relaxing like spending time with family or friends rather than bury their heads into their works. It is significant to socialise with others or sometimes sharing your problems with family can help people to unwind. Furthermore, exercise plays an indispensable role in mitigating the negative impacts of this problem. During exercise, a chemical is known as endorphin will be released which keep our mind off from stress for a certain period of time.
	In conclusion, there are several causes which lead to a hectic life. Nevertheless, there are a handful of ways to cope with this problem. I believe we can live in a harmonious and yet relaxing environment provided that we follow the stated practical ways of de-stress.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1803-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-729-any-child-can-be-taught-to-become-a-great-sports-person-or-musician",
Essay 774:
	It is a frequently debated fact that some people are gifted with some abilities in their genetic, but the others do not have this kind of prodigiousness. By contrast, some people think that any person could be a successful musician or sportsman by education, practice and proper guideline.
	On the one hand, each individual has a tendency on a specific field of art or a science. However, a minority of them are geniuses who show off a splendid success on their jobs. For instance, most of the investors, such as Einstein, Newton, Edison and Graham bell. They were geniuses and had genetically intellectual capacity much more than the other people. Furthermore, this kind of successful people could be seen in sports and music also. Messi and Mozart are the good examples for achieved sportsman and musician. Thus, some people could be more capable than the others in certain areas.
	On the other hand, some people think that every child could be a successful person through education. In other words, success is behind the education, continuous practices and working hard. The abilities that people have do not provide a differentiation on the achievements of them. The difference among the people’s success is derived from the quality of education that they got. Thus, any person who were the same position and had a similar education would be able to indicate awesome performance.
	Finally, each person has different kinds of abilities, skills, talents in different areas. The abilities, skills and tendencies of children detected in early ages and children should get an education in the fields that they have the tendency. Thus, both nurture and nature are effective on the success of people.
Essay 775:
	Throughout the enormous capacity of human history, we came across countless people with extraordinary talents in art, music, sport, science and so on. However, of all these experts, some are innate with a precious gift while others were acquired, trained when they were children. Nevertheless, success is often combined with many factors including environments, the extent of practice, training methods, and indubitably, a certain level of talents. Therefore, I believe in congenital talents, which, to say the least, are the essential element to success.
	Mozart, an exceptional musician, showed his superb music talent when he was only three and was able to complete an exquisite symphony as he turned six.
	Susan Boyle, an ordinary middle-aged woman who never received any professional training as an opera singer, was able to earn a deafening standing ovation from the whole podium by singing "I had a dream", a song which would require a professional singer to pour their genuine devotion in order to reach perfection. A genetic research indicated that up to 50% of the great artists we came to recognise were born with supreme talents. These prodigies are sometimes so unfairly gifted that they will leave a ghastly gap between those who were trained to be professional and were not supposed to be outrun single-handedly.
	Nevertheless, people still claimed that anyone can be trained to become a professional. Jeremy Lin, a rising NBA basketball player who created "Linsanity", had grabbed the sheer opportunity to success by polishing his skills and training ever since he was a child and committed his dedication in basketball no matter what difficulty that lied ahead. Yo Yo Ma, a phenomenal musician, started his cellist training when he was only four and immersed his whole dedication into it throughout his life. These people's success is not instantaneous. Their paths to glory were established through hard work, accompanied by consistent training and still, a certain degree of innate talents.
	To put into conclusion, the genetic privilege could not be fooled. Whether acquired or congenital, people will always need some talent to help them reach from good to great.
Essay 776:
	In today's modern world, we are constantly bombarded with the idea that those who achieve success in their careers or studies are born with certain talents. Some people, however, are of the opinion that every child can be as talented as them as they assert that children nowadays can be sent to classes to learn the required technique. Thus, we will examine both sides of the arguments before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	Admittedly, some people seem to be more talented than others due to the extraordinary achievements they have ever had which then leads to the belief that they are born with a specific talent. They can pick up or learn new things that they have not been exposed to in the certain field, for example, sports or music, much faster than others. It is also believed that parents who have mastered the skills in sports, then their children are more likely to be born with such skills as well. Hence, the children are, normally, able to achieve their aspirations easier than others, in other words, they do not need to work so hard like other people do in order to succeed in their careers or studies.
	Nevertheless, it does not mean that other people who do not bear with such talents will certainly fail to reach their targets. I believe everyone can be as successful as those who are skilled and talented provided that they are willing to be more dedicated in making attempts to strike their goals. According to the statistic of a recent research conducted in Malaysia, it has shown that about 75% of the people are not born with specific talents but they are still managed to pay extra attentions to their weaknesses and made a change in order to become successful in a certain career. Therefore, it is apparent that although the majority of people worldwide are not born with talents, due to their patience and endurance, they have stricken their targeted goal.
	In conclusion, I believe that every individual around the globe can still achieve their aspirations regardless of their talents as long as they are willing to pay more hard works than others. Our nation will surely to continue to prosper and flourish in the decades to come if there are more citizens who become successful in their careers.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1800-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-728-school-authorities-should-not-spend-time-and-money-on-music-classes",
Essay 777:
	From centuries music is indeed a need for all humans, and music transforms the life of a big majority of people whether it is in the form of fame or in the money. All humans admire music, as it provides relaxing feeling and a way to run off from the tensions of life. Some people have God gifted ability to sing while others have to take lessons either from schools/colleges or from instructors. A great number of people's opinion is that time and money spent on music is not necessary, they believe that all resources are to be used in learning useful subjects. I am not totally in agreement with the statement and in this essay I will discuss both views with the conclusion.
	First of all music is a way of earning for a majority of peoples. Nowadays it has become a career path for people loving to be a singer. There are many forms of music like guitar artist, drummer or vocalist, these all have a significant place in the society as in every restaurant or casino there is a need of music, actually the live music, which ultimately attracts a vast majority of public and ultimately increase revenue. So more and more people need to learn the music it seems to them that they have brighter future in the field. And the time, money or other resources they spent on music classes expel rebate to them in near future.
	On the other hand, resources spent on learning useful subjects have their own worth. Peoples investing in these fields also have a good outcome of their efforts and in the end when they became a top engineer or Doctor and having a name in the society also admire the music of their inmates currently in the field of music.
	In the end, I would say that you have to work hard either you are choosing music or some other field to become prominent in the society. Peoples always admire your work whether you are famous Doctor, a talented engineer or fascinating singer. Peoples have to decide are they investing their resource in the right direction or not.
Essay 778:
	It has been a debatable issue whether to spend time and money on music classes or not at the school level. Some sect of people argues that music tutorials are simply a waste of time and money instead they suggest to use that time in improving academic performance. However, I believe that school should be encouraged to attend music classes.
	There are myriad reasons why a child must be sent to music classes. Firstly, music has the power to generate life in inanimate things. Music represents the art of living. A student with knowledge of music will definitely become soft-hearted, kind and mainly pleasant minded. Music improves mental ability which in turn increases concentration power. Thus a child can utilise this power in studies to attain good results.
	In today’s world, there is a bright career in music. Moreover, pop musicians, singers, music directors, etc get high endorsements. For instance, the legend of the music industry, Oscar award winner A. R. Rahman is a well-known live example who shows the importance of music in life. However, to an extent, music is an innate talent and all the children do not same interest in it. So, in such cases, it may be a waste of time as well as an extra burden on a school student to handle both music classes and also academic syllabus.
	On the other hand, some people assert that children should make use of money and time in learning useful subjects like science and computers rather than on music classes. Subject related classes enhance their in-depth knowledge of academic concepts. To add more, it will be a kind of revision that increases grip on the school subjects. Ultimately this yields good results. And as we know good results ensures their bright future with a better job. Therefore, it seems wise to spend time and money on useful subjects instead of music classes.
	In conclusion, good academic performance may secure a student’s career but I opine an all round development is essential for a child in which music plays a very crucial role. 
Essay 779:
	Music makes mind pleasant, music makes a person’s mind rejuvenated relieved and de-stressed. Inculcating music from childhood days develops a good impact on one's mindset as the child grows, so it is good that music is made a part of schooling subject in school.
	If we consider the benefits of listening and practising music, it is surprising to note that music rejuvenates and refreshes minds of people. Music soothes a soul which in want for some peace, it is also said that music heals and changes attitudes of a person.
	Apart from the personal benefits, the music changed people’s lives. Many contemporary musicians developed their native music in such a way that we sing and hum to their tunes though it might not be understandable by us. For example, the music series by “The Corrs” especially the feathers made us feel the essence of music.
	Musicians who opted music as their career developed themselves as Icons and for them the sky is the no limit for their achievements. If music is nurtured from childhood days, their attitudes develop and even their gentleness develops making them as gentlemen and women. Apart from the personal benefits, if the music is learned from the beginning we could see in future many musicians who could do wonders with music.
	As far as my opinion is concerned music should be a part of subjects and should be taught and practised right from the childhood days, further I completely disagree that money and time spent on music is a waste. Though importance has to be given to the science and computers, a music class does not steal the scientific and computing knowledge out of child’s curriculum and mind
	Finally, I conclude that spending time and money on music is never a waste, in fact, it helps in aiding children’s mind in absorbing the scientific and computing aspects which are cumbersome.
Essay 780:
	Since the dawn of time, subjects such as science, computer and music have been included in every school's curriculum. However, throughout history, music has been seen by many that studying music is not that really important compared to those two subjects. It is agreed that children must learn vital subjects like science and computer while music should just be optional. This argument will be proven by looking at how the two subjects are important in life and music is only for recreation.
	For one, science and computer are important for our daily lives. For example, when I was studying, science class allowed me to learn the process of the scientific method, problem-solving and critical thinking. These are essential in life and I am using these in every decision I make. Also, in my computer class, I learned how to use the internet that is really a vital tool in doing my research in things I need to know. These make it clear that children should learn science and computer.
	In addition to this, music is just a hobby and it should be optional for children to study. An instance illustrating this action is I. I am not really into music actually, and if I want to learn some sort of this subject, I can just go to the Internet, go to YouTube website where I can watch and study anything. Thus, it is important that the young ones should study computer and the Internet. It is obvious from this that music is not as essential as those of the two mentioned subjects.
	In conclusion, learning science and computer technology are really useful in our day to day life and music is only for recreation and should just be an option in school. It has been proven that children should learn these essential subjects and music should be optional. Thus, it is recommended for the parents to encourage their children to study hard the science and computer subjects.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1799-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-727-children-should-learn-from-school-how-to-be-good-members",
Essay 781:
	One of the most controversial issues today relates to whether the parents or teachers in the school have the responsibility to teach children to be good citizens. Therefore, we will examine both sides of the issues in this essay.
	Undoubtedly, parents have an indispensable role in guiding their children when they are small to the right path towards their future lives. It is proven that children are more influenced by their parents than anyone else. They will think that what their parents do is always right, thus parents are advisable to be an excellent role model for their children. Parents, for example, could teach them the good moral values through storytelling. It is not only will benefit the individuals themselves but a society as well.
	Nevertheless, teachers should do their part well in school by teaching the children what are the good values. Children nowadays spend most of their daytime in school, so teachers have the most important obligation to make sure the children turn out to be a well-behaved member of society. It is encouraged that teachers should punish the students whenever they make mistakes such as fighting in school. By doing this, the students will know that fighting is a bad behaviour and they may change their way of behavioural and it can also act as a deterrent to other students. Besides, teachers can also emphasise the importance of being a good individual in terms of behaviour while teaching.
	In conclusion, both parents and teachers in the school are responsible for ensuring their children to behave mannerly when they are young.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1798-job-satisfaction-is-an-important-part-of-being-happy-in-life",
Essay 782:
	From the dawn of the time, most people allotted greatly of their time working. Throughout the history, a lot of researchers tried to come up with a definition and ways to achieve job satisfaction. Being satisfied with one's job is an integral part for you to have a happy life and great physical and emotional well-being. This will be proven on how job satisfaction differs from one individual and another. It is greatly affected by one's definition of satisfaction and their expectation on the job.
	To begin with, nowadays people's lives greatly depend on their income and benefits from their job. Salary seems to be an essential element in considering their happiness and contentment to one's job. Another contributing element is the working environment. A healthy working environment consists of a good relationship between the employee and the employer, as well as their colleague, this has been an important role in attaining job satisfaction. In addition, without any doubt having a good time at work is one to take into consideration. To be more specific no one can be satisfied with their job if they are having an unhealthy relationship with their colleagues, this will definitely give them a lot of stress and will soon affect the person's job performance. Last but not the least, career growth opportunity is also one of the elements to be considered to attain a great job satisfaction that triggers the employee's happiness and making them realise their potentials.
	Apparently, there are so many contributing elements to attain job satisfaction. But it is really possible for one to be satisfied with their job? In my own point of view, I would definitely agree that one can be satisfied on their job depending on their definition of satisfaction and depending on their reasonable and attainable expectation on their work. In my case, if I have to dependent on my salary and benefits for my job satisfaction it will be certain that I'm unsatisfied with my current job. As no one will be satisfied with their job if that will be their basis, because a good financial compensation and an excellent benefit is just a prize for all your hard work. Furthermore, working long hours and having a low salary will be out of the picture if you will just learn how to love your work and enjoy what you are doing.
	To sum it up, although it is hard to be fully satisfied on one's job, it would be great if you will focus on the positive aspect of your work ad ignore the negative side of it, in order for you to achieve job satisfaction and happiness in life.
Essay 783:
	Job satisfaction is apparently a very essential part for people. Many people try their hard to meet the job satisfaction. Thus, they may spend most of their time working. Although work satisfaction can be extremely subjective and can differ among people, yet there will be some factors leading to work satisfaction, for instances achievement, reward, better working environment, nice co-workers, career prospect and suitable job responsibilities.
	To begin with, achievement is one of the important elements contributing to job satisfaction. Achievement can be addressed as fulfilled goals of an organization or job. When someone has successfully obtained the purpose of his job, emotionally he will get such satisfaction. For example, in arranging a social event, the organizer may feel satisfied and respectful when the event runs smoothly and successfully reaches the peak of the event.
	In addition, reward also may contribute to job satisfaction. Reward is considered as something or gift given to someone as an award for his or her achievement on working. It may trigger happiness on workers and give them satisfaction as they perceive being appreciated by other people. Giving a holiday, for example, to a worker who completely finished her work will lead her to a job satisfaction as emotionally she feels what she did already met the requirement and objective.
	Salary, increment, compensation and rewards for extra works often motivate people and make them happy in their jobs. Apart from personal benefits, well-behaved boss, nice co-workers, suitable job responsibilities and nice and fair working environment are other important aspects for job satisfactions.  
	Meanwhile, expectation of job satisfaction for employees may be realistic when the can directly benefit from their employers. For example is receiving reward and self-pride. They may contribute to self-value and prestige of someone that may lead her to job satisfaction and promotion for a better position in her working place. However, people have different expectations from their jobs and that’s why satisfying all employees is impossible.
	All in all, job satisfaction can be determined by some factors and individuals may perceive different satisfaction. It can be personally dependent. However, the expectation of job satisfaction can be realistically assessed through reward and job promotion, though that will not fulfill every one’s expectation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1797-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-725-employing-and-exploiting-animals-for-basic-human-needs-is-totally-justified",
Essay 784:
	Nowadays, the destruction of animals is increasing at very fast pace. This has sparked a heated debate. Some people contend to use animals and consider their rights but others had a notion of utilising them for their personal benefits. This essay would discuss the both the sides of the issue.
	On one side, individuals should consider the rights of animals. Animals are also one of the living creatures on this planet and have right to live freely. They do have the feelings and understanding of the relationships. For example, dogs are considered to be loyal towards his owners and even sometimes sacrifices their life for the sake of protecting their owners’ life. Thus hurting them means creating curse for ourselves.
	On contrary part, animals can provide the regardless benefits to economy and society of a country. Many people  do a business in the field of dairy farming, poultry farming, making the shoes, bags from the skin of animals ,meat industry and make good profits. Furthermore, animals are also involved in the sports these days. For instance horse riding and bull fighting are very common at present. As a consequence, all these contributing to the growth of the economy and satisfying the needs of human race.
	To put it in a nutshell, although human cannot think about their progress without animals but the distortion of living creatures seems inhuman. In my opinion, animals provide us unlimited resources without any cost. So we should utilise them in control way and restrict the killing. Ultimately, for the sake of humanity and get the valuable products for a longer time we must provide them healthy and secure life.
Essay 785:
	One of the most controversial issues, these days is related to, how animals should be treated by individuals. Although, some people declare that we need only to stop hitting and killing the various animals around us, but I believe that a strict law by governments should be applied to save these creatures. An analysed debate will be provided before a reasonable conclusion will be found in the next paragraphs.
	Some People claims, that dealing with animals for a long time, help a sheer change in personalities and adopt inhuman attitudes. Also, some expert state that the only place where animals fit is research and experiment facilities. They also clearly say that farms are the perfect way to contain farming animals, so humanity can use them meat, milk and even leather. They also argued that majority of fatal sickness generated by farming animals. For instance, take SARS as an obvious example of that and how farming birds help to spread it.
	On the other hand, the advocate of animal rights state, that we are dealing with poor creatures, which do not have the ability to identify the differences between good actions and a bad one. In addition, childhood consultant trust that, the majority of child violence actions children do against the younger children is related to copying parents actions towards farming animals. For example, a 7-years-old child killed his younger sister with axe copying what his father doing to them farming cheeps.
	To sum up, this argument will last long until people and governments agreed that we have to keep these animals safe, as well as I agreed.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1796-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-724-methods-used-in-advertising-are-unethical-and-unacceptable-in-today-s-society",
Essay 786:
	In this digital age, we are barraged with an endless amount of advertisements on a daily basis, ranging from adverts on our cell phones to personal soliciting. Nonetheless, many of the methods used to advertise can be considered unacceptable and immoral.
	To begin, a common agenda of many advertisers is to first make their audience feel deprived and then to instil a belief in their viewers that only through buying the advertised product or service, they can attain satisfaction. Most people would agree that this strategy is at the very least unacceptable and at worst sinister. Another unacceptable tactic used by advertisers is the deliberate misrepresentation of their products as being scarce and only available for a limited amount of time, by doing this they exploit the human psychology, which places a higher value on things that are apparently not abundant.
	In addition, the fact that we can’t escape from advertising is in my opinion, an invasion of personal privacy. In this era of democracy, human beings should have the free will to decide what information they wish to receive but through internet and telemarketing, advertisers have the choice to shove their products down our throats. To illustrate, when browsing the internet, ads can pop up anytime, one after another and after a certain number of times, these intrusive ads can become excruciatingly frustrating.
	In brief, I agree with the notion that many of the tactics used for adverting in today’s world are both unacceptable and unethical because they are manipulative and violate a person’s privacy.
Essay 787:
	Today's significant development of information technology facilitates industries to advertise their products and services widely and in a more variety of platforms which leads advertising activity to be uncontrollable. Furthermore, this brings the companies to make advertisements intensively by eliminating code of conduct causing the existence of unethical and unacceptable advertisements in today's society.
	On the other hand, it has been common in today's advertising when enterprises advertise their product, they make an advert containing pornographic content. For example, the “Segar dingin susu soda” advertisement, a drinking advertisement gives an unethical impression by showing a sensual style of the artist played by Julia Perez wearing super-sexy clothes. This condition is not acceptable and unreasonable because it can trigger the watcher’s desire and is not in line with the product advertised.
	Advertisements are meant to describe the advantages and outstanding features of a product or service while most of the advertisements shown on TV and the internet are highly deceptive and contain sexually explicit materials. These should be controlled by any means or the society would get affected the slow poisoning of negative and unsuitable advertisement virus.
	To sum up, it is obvious that most of today's advertisements are not acceptable for the society referring to a large number of unethical adverts which are often found these days. Hence, it should be government's responsibility to prevent this condition by giving a strict rule of this kind of activities.
Essay 788:
	Different methods of advertisement are used in common media and among them few are considered morally controversial and misleading. I agree with the criticism because the promotions made by companies, like tobacco and fashion industries, try to disguise social aspects, give partial information and try to trigger emotions of people to misguide their judgments.
	First, misusing the freedom of the media and advertisement industry, many companies and brands have started using inappropriate ways to convince the society in buying products. For instance, tobacco companies invest millions of dollars in promotion campaigns, which often include famous celebrities, to increase the number of smokers in our community in order to maintain the flow of their sale. Thus, add-making houses are paid heavily to make the catchy scenario for the people. Therefore, most of the advertisement makers try to introduce a concept that smoking is essential to be manly and someone special. Furthermore, to make the presentation even more realistic they might end up hiring a film or sports stars. As a result, people, especially youths, get distracted.
	Another feature of immorality could be seen in advertisements made by fashion and cosmetic industries. Fashion industries try to induce a specific pale zero size model image as criteria of an ideal body, which is why, in order to attain that many women, especially girls, end up in a psychological condition like anorexia nervosa or body dysmorphic syndrome. Nevertheless, academic excellence is also markedly affected by those deceptive advertisements.  Though there is no scientific evidence that a cream can make our complexion fair, this is a common scenario in an advertisement made by a beauty cream producers.
	Finally, hiding real ingredients used in a product and side effects of using it is a common practice in advertisement industries. How ambiguous and confusing it is when every brand claim to be the best!  Creativity and unique concept in advertisements should be used positively- in fact, to let the consumers make informed judgments, not to deceive them.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree that many advertisements we see or hear break the ethics and morality of our society. Also, the government ought to restrict certain features of freedom given to media, in particular to tobacco and fashion industries. Viewers should be presented with advertisements that are not unethical or inappropriate.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1794-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-723-money-and-time-should-be-spent-on-more-useful-subject-like-computer",
Essay 789:
	Since the dawn of time, subjects such as science, computer and music have been included in every school's curriculum. However, throughout history, music has been seen by many that studying music is not that really important compared to those two subjects. It is agreed that children must learn vital subjects like science and computer while music should just be optional. This argument will be proven by looking at how the two subjects are important in life and music is only for recreation.
	For one, science and computer are important for our daily lives. For example, when I was studying, science class allowed me to learn the process of the scientific method, problem-solving and critical thinking. These are essential in life and I am using these in every decision I make. Also, in my computer class, I learned how to use the internet that is really a vital tool in doing my research in things I need to know. These make it clear that children should learn science and computer.
	In addition to this, music is just a hobby and it should be optional for children to study. An instance illustrating this action is I. I am not really into music actually, and if I want to learn some sort of this subject, I can just go to the Internet, go to YouTube website where I can watch and study anything. Thus, it is important that the young ones should study computer and the Internet. It is obvious from this that music is not as essential as those of the two mentioned subjects.
	In conclusion, learning science and computer technology are really useful in our day to day life and music is only for recreation and should just be an option in school. It has been proven that children should learn these essential subjects and music should be optional. Thus, it is recommended for the parents to encourage their children to study hard the science and computer subjects.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1792-international-tourism-and-international-trade-are-two-important-aspects",
Essay 790:
	Today, the majority of the people travel in different countries as part of their work, travel or living. But the fact is whether it bring a benefit to society or not? I would like to share my opinion in the following paragraphs.
	Firstly, as people start travelling to different places, they communicate with the local people, which make it possible to understand each other and lead a good relationship. This relationship may help to bring a good understanding and bonding among the nations. Moreover, as the number of tourists increases, tourist resorts also increases, revenue collection will be increased, which reduces the burden of government barring all the expenses of the maintenance. The economic level of a country will be in a control. This not only provides financial support to the government, as a number of accommodation centre increases, need for employee also increase as a result.  The problem for unemployment can be solved, which helps in making a powerful and developed economy.
	On the other side, most of the nations have their own tradition and culture. This difference is major in countries where fewer foreign tourists come to visit when compared with other countries where a large number of tourists travel and stay each year. This may create a serious issue in some places where the tradition is on the upper side. For example; the dressing style of western country differs from our nation. When they visit a sacred place such as temples, mosques or some other pilgrimage places may create some inconvenient situation for the locals. Sometimes, the situation may become worst which may result in future conflicts among the nations.
	To sum up with my words, despite the drawbacks in the above paragraph, the international tourism helps to a greater extent in forming a nation and to lead a peaceful, friendly relationship among them and making the planet earth a meaningful one.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1791-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-721-many-people-nowadays-regard-shopping-as-a-hobby",
Essay 791:
	In recent years, the change in spending money to buy people's needs has occurred dramatically. As a result, it always will be a controversial topic whether it is a bad or positive trend relating to the shopping habit which has become a routine task and even a hobby. This essay, as my point of view, leads to, will try to come up with several considerations as I believe that an intermediate position can be taken relating to this issue.
	 Shopping, that contradicts the topic regards, is a "nightmare" because the impacts which are dire & inevitable. Consumerism, in some ways, contributes bad things to the society as well as the civilisations. People who overcapitalize their money can spend their revenues in nothing and as a result, they suffer in managing their funding and try to borrow a big amount of money for just their basic needs. Psychologists argue that addiction in shopping which creates consumerism behaviour can lead to several criminal dire effects such as robbery and stealing.
	However, without shopping and its relating things governments will face the problem in controlling the economy. The thing which can grow the Gross Domestic Products indicator is expenditures, especially the private one. Without increasing in this indicator, there will be severe implications which the economist called unemployment. The improvement of spending money indicates that people in the country are wealthy and also projects the prosperity of the nation which influences the corporations to produce products in high quantity as well as high quality. Throughout this trend, the employers will try to provide immense chances for people to get their job in the corporations. As consequences, spending in buying products, even it is a hobby or not, with larger portions helps economy matters indirectly.
	To sum up, having considered the discussion above, I believe it will always create both positive and negative impacts, but shopping habit can be useful if the shoppers expend their money wisely.
Essay 792:
	People used to go shopping only because of a daily needs, while recently it changes to be a kind of hobbies for people. Some state that shopping is an activity which can reduce boredom, thus it is great for people to do so. I personally believe that going shopping is not only for spending money, but you can find some benefits by doing this kind of activities. Therefore, through this essay, I will support my view with some considerations.
	The first idea is that people love shopping because it can refresh their minds. By going shopping round you will be able to forget the things which burden you. For instance, young adults prefer to do the shopping after having the final examination. They will try to entertain themselves by buying something which is interesting and they will obtain a satisfaction at the time. As a consequently, they directly forget about the difficulties encountered during the exam.
	In addition, going shopping is not only the case of buying something such as clothes, bags or even accessories. Shopping also means amusement in which people visit some shopping places to gather with family or friends. They just tend to spend their time in the lovely places which provide a lot of entertainments, thus they can enjoy their leisure time with full of joy and fun.
	To sum up, go shopping could be a bad habit that can addict people to do so. However, Shopping is a great hobby which can help people overcoming their stress or even anxiety. It occurs because doing shopping will make them more relax and forget about their problems.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1790-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-720-the-advantage-of-the-spread-of-english-as-a-global-language-will-continue",
Essay 793:
	It is true that the proliferation of the English language on an international scale is profoundly impacting many countries by benefiting underdeveloped nations’ businesses and tourism through globalisation and providing its people with a foundation for accessing the quality education available in developed countries. Although the drawbacks do exist, benefits are countless. I believe that the benefits of this trend have more significance than its demerits and this will continue in the coming years.  
	The widespread usage of a single language, English in this case, attracts foreign investors and tourists from developed countries; promoting globalisation, and it has both advantages and disadvantages. Firstly, the economy is improved through the profitable businesses of multi-national companies. In addition to this, the tourists’ arrivals increase due to hospitality enjoyed when spoken to in a common language. Moreover, this influx increases the government’s revenue generated from the hospitality industry. On the other hand, the promotion of international businesses can harm the local business expansions. Furthermore, due to the increasing use of the English language, many local languages are getting less priority and thus impacting the cultural identity of many nations.  
	English provides a solid foundation for people seeking quality education in developed countries and equips them to secure a high paying job in a multinational company. Firstly, it is the only medium of teaching instruction in the world’s top universities; an active command of the language secures an admission to a university. To add, knowledge of the language place candidates a step forward in the job hunting pool; the chances are high that the desired position is earned.
	While the increasing usage of English attracts foreign businesses and tourists in underdeveloped nations, local businesses may be stifled, and natives may be undermined. However, the benefits it brings to these nations through globalisation, and their people by laying a foundation for quality education eclipse its drawbacks, which in my opinion, is a positive trend.
Essay 794:
	 Presently, English is called a universal language as half of the world population is using it. It is the gateway to the world, the ability to speak in English is considered as one of the hallmarks of a cultured person. It is undeniable to say that, global language has resulted in both positive and negative effects which must be addressed accordingly.
	To begin with, there are many benefits of extending a universal language. Through global language, a particular country can develop its business relations and increase its economic growth. Professionally, in today's globalised world, those who are fluent in English have a competitive advantage over other candidates.
	From the social perspective, the English language allows people to enter a wider cultural world, which helps in developing healthy relations among them. This critical ability is building a foundation for good business and social relations. The widespread use of the English language is narrowing the gap between communication and people all over the world have accepted English as a language to use for communications. The books, history and research papers written in this language are really great in number and the spread of this language has made it possible to let people around the world learn the same technology and resources.
	However, one can not deny the drawbacks which are derived from global language. Adopting universal language is leading to westernisation of culture. Nowadays, people speak global language instead of their own language. As a result, they are forgetting their indigenous dialects and culture and their children are following the same. For example, Bangladesh is well-known for its culture and traditions all over the world, but, presently, many people have forgotten their culture and language.
	In conclusion, I would argue that benefits created by the English language far outweigh the disadvantages of it and in future English would be spoken by far many people and would decrease the language barrier nations have.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1789-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-719-many-people-say-that-music-lesson-in-schools-is-very-important",
Essay 795:
	There have been always debates about how and where schools should use the available resources. One of these debates is the amount of money and time spent in teaching music. Some people would argue that teaching science or computer has a higher priority but from my point of view, I think that teaching music is as important as teaching any other subjects. In the next paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support this position.
	First of all, every society consists of a variety of professions. You cannot replace a profession with a different one and expect it to function properly. For example, while you need engineers to build devices and doctors to cure people, you also need musicians and entertainers so that people can enjoy their spare time.
	Second of all, every child is different and has his/her hobbies, talents and dreams. We cannot focus on certain subjects and ignore others as this will bring up generations who would know a lot of information in fields that they do not really care about. So, in order to have a successful and balanced society, we need people who have passion towards their work and this passion will not come unless we give each subject in school its amount of time and effort. This will give the children the chance to choose the field they will really excel at.
	Music is very motivational and adding music classes would help children focus on other complex subjects like Algebra and Physics. Many students have a natural talent for music and the teachers would be able to identify them. Thus the possible future musician would be sorted out and nurtured. We do not need a generation full of mathematician and computer programmer. An ideal society needs musicians as much as it needs the technical persons. So music lessons in school level cannot be a waste of money and time.
	To summarise, I believe giving the time and money for teaching music in schools as much as we give for teaching other subjects will help produce better and more successful society.
Essay 796:
	Some people think that students should be taught subjects like science and computers at schools instead of wasting time and money in music and art classes. I completely disagree with this statement because students should be allowed to explore all the subject areas rather than focusing only on some limited areas.
	Only studying subjects like science, maths and computers make students monotonous. As we know, these subjects are comparatively tough than other subjects. The students also try too hard on understanding those subjects to secure good grades in the examination. Sometimes, some students even lose interest in their study if they are not allowed to do any other extra activities except studying. So, there must be few extra classes for them to enjoy their day at school in spite of all the tough study they have to do.
	Not all students are interested in science. Some of them might be interested in music or arts. Also, some students can be good in both science and music or arts. Having art and music classes help them to actually bring out their hidden talent in front of the whole world. Furthermore, it will give them a chance to be creative. In addition, such classes help students to decrease the stress of study. This, in turn, will help them to be focused on their study since a stress-free mind can learn things quickly and accurately.
	Similarly, being in such classes not only help students to enjoy their day at school but also keep them occupied during their free time. Instead of wasting their time in watching television and playing computer games, they can practice music and art and be creative. This way they will be entertaining themselves as well as practising and enhancing perfection on what they love.
	To sum up, classes like music and arts are really important for students. This should be made available in every school to motivate students in extra-curricular activities along with their study which will help them in their intellectual development.
Essay 797:
	We are usually made to learn a wide variety of subjects in our school. We practice Math for computational skills and again have to memorise past events as part of world history. Within all this, schools have made provisions for recreational activities such as musical classes. However, not every person finds such musical classes beneficial for a child.
	Many people might argue that such classes would distract a student from their homework or project work or would take up additional time that could have been better utilised for mainstream subjects. However, I remember our school used to space our music classes in between major lessons with its duration strictly being similar to other classes. Most of my classmates used to comment on how, after our music lessons, they used to feel more invigorated or inspired to tackle their homework. So such a measure by every school could dissipate such misgivings.
	Hence, it can be concluded that the time and money spent behind music would benefit a child much more than utilising all their resources only behind mainstream subjects.
Essay 798:
	Firstly, based on the reliable scientific research, it was found that the music has a positive impact on children's brain development. These scientists believe that children who play musical instruments such as piano or violin are more intelligent than the ordinary children. Children who frequently listen to music or play music instruments have a proportionate use of their left and right brain; therefore they could combine their emotional and logical thinking. One of the examples is the famous composer Mozart, who had been introduced to music since he was five years old, and became one of the greatest world composers.
	Secondly, the existence of music class also plays an important role for the school and the children as well. It is a fact that each child is born with different talent and passion. Some children might be born with the interest in calculation or logical thinking, but there are others who are born with the talent in arts, such as painting, singing or playing musical instruments. Therefore the existence of musical class can be used to facilitate and develop children who have a passion for music. Besides that, music class can also be used a preparation for school performance. It is common that during a graduation ceremony, there will be some performance from children and one of them might be the choir. The music class can be used for rehearsal, therefore, the children's choir could perform well during the ceremony.
	In conclusion, several people believe that musical class should be eliminated from school curriculum since it is a waste of money and time. They believe that school should focus more on useful subjects, such as biology, chemistry or mathematics.  I totally disagree with the statement, since I do believe that music can be a positive influence on the children's brain development. Besides that, it is true that every individual is born with different talent and passion; therefore schools cannot enforce children to focus on studying some particular subjects.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1787-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-718-many-people-spend-a-lot-of-time-using-communication-technology",
Essay 799:
	Communication is the art of conveying expressions, emotions and feelings between individuals. As the human steps on the path to transcendence, the high-tech tries to interfere in every facet of life and facilitate the vicissitudes of it. However, the real impacts of novel technologies are a perennial debate.
	First, the invention of the telegraph made our infinite world really small. So, delivering messages faster was the first stepping stone of communication technology. Second, utilising ordinary phones and some years later by cell phones, the word of loneliness was eliminated from the dictionary of a society. Third, the internet which has the most striking impact on our life makes it possible to transform a cell phone into a bank, library or a conference room. Thus, being stocked in traffic jams or breathing polluted air is not a matter due to privileges of novel technologies.
	On the other hand, psychologists consider modern people an indolent species. Nowadays, we prefer using our phones instead of taking a walk to see a friend. Also, the artificial intelligence and ambience dilute the role of emotion in interacting. The amazing gadgets and fascinating communication can lead us to forget how to like and dislike. Hence, it can put us in the prison which we made and erect around us.
	To sum up, although the modern technology can make far distances shorter or carry out our monotonous works faster, but we should not lose the sight of the fact that it can never transfer our feeling and emotions. Thus, a middle ground should be taken for these two approaches.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1786-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-717-the-role-of-prisons-should-be-to-punish-criminals-who-have-committed-serious-crimes",
Essay 800:
	It is true that jails play a vital role to decelerate the crime rates by imposing imprisonment on the offenders. Several developmental programs are provided to the prisoners to upgrade their social attitude and transform their mind towards positivity. However, many people believe that these activities do not draw benefits, rather than it is a matter of complete vain. Although, I contend opposite of the given statement and in further I will provide several advantages of the present setup of prison.
	First of all, it is undeniable that, captivity helps to reduce crimes in society. Nowadays people get apprehensive to embark on any violated activity. Because the negative impacts of imprisonment are numerous. For instance, this lead to loss of social respect and captive’s family passes their days as like a terrible nightmare. Additionally. Imprisonment develops fear, guilt inside criminals mind, therefore they realise their faults and stay away from further explicable acts. Sometimes, it is also a perfect way of taking revenge for the victims.
	Moreover, in present time many voluntary developmental programs and workshops are ongoing in the prisons of almost all the countries. By getting vocational training, prisoners can expect a better life outside. For example, a thief who steal someone’s belongings, in turn, to get money and food, may not engage in further crime as he has adequate skills and learnings to be employed and thus, lead a respectable life. Various educational programs can motivate and diverse the criminal attitudes towards a better life which is not only benefiting the individual but also deterring crime in the society.
	To sum up, jails are one of the important parts of our community which is dealing strongly with the criminals and criminal activity, despite having any trade-off. While the recent addition of educational and developmental training programs are necessary for both individual and community.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1785-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-716-which-one-according-to-you-is-the-better-way-of-spending-an-ideal-holiday",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1784-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-715-education-is-the-single-most-important-factor-in-the-development-of-developing-countries",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1783-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-714-studying-the-past-has-little-value-in-the-modern-world",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1782-in-most-countries-disabled-people-are-not-catered-adequately",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1781-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-712-the-first-car-appeared-on-the-british-roads-in-1888",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1780-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-711-most-of-us-rely-on-newspapers-as-the-primary-source-of-news-and-information",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1779-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-710-many-schools-face-severe-problems-with-student-behaviour",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1778-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-709-main-reasons-for-people-to-attend-colleges-and-universities",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1776-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-708-text-messaging-using-mobile-phones-is-largely-to-blame-for-the-falling-standards-in-written-english",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1775-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-707-in-some-countries-young-people-at-the-age-of-18-are-considered-adults",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1772-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-706-public-libraries-to-be-unnecessary-due-to-the-availability-of-the-internet",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1771-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-705-important-professionals-like-doctors-and-teachers-are-poorly-paid",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1769-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-704-in-sub-continent-cricket-has-become-more-popular-than-the-national-sports",
Essay 801:
	Cricket is a sport which includes two opposite teams played by 11 players on each side and it is one of the most popular outdoor sports in these modern days. The total number of audience and the importance of this game have evolved beyond boundaries in the recent times than ever, particularly in countries like India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan etc. and I believe the number of reasons contributed towards this change is numerous. But it is undoubtedly arguable that the significance of cricket has crossed as that of the national games, in almost all these countries.
	Being an Indian, I would consider my self-privileged to explain what happened in India which has, in turn, helped cricket to be a celebrated game. The national sport of India is declared as hockey and India always has had a wonderful hockey team now and in the past. But it is quite evident that during the mid-80s the exposure cricket had received internationally is commendable when compared to any other sport, so as in India too. Those days, hockey was also given similar importance but with India's victory of International Cricket Council's world cup in the early 90s, the dream of an Asian country winning an international title has become a dream come true for not only Indians but also for the other subcontinents in Asia. Ever since then, the players were treated as celebrities and apparently the popularity of the game has increased and as time has passed, India became one of the most successful and a record winning team in the entire world.
	Adding to the flavour, it would be insensitive, if I do not count the contributions of individual cricket players and their influence in the Indian community. Some players like Sachin Tendulkar and Saurav Ganguly has been an envied opening partnership for all other opponent countries, and they have been very successful in making and achieving new records day by day. Sachin Tendulkar alone holds more than 200 records in the game of Cricket and he is the most run scorer and century holder in all forms of cricket. Additionally, when we go back to the history of cricket it is worth mentioning that, cricket has its root of origin to England, and I presume being a colony to the English for around 200 years until 1947, cricket has got widely popularised during these days.
	In summary, although, I have so many other reasons to be specifically pointed out, I consider the above said details are most significant to be told. However, I would be more than eager to witness what sport could possibly replace Cricket from its position in the future, as I believe change is inevitable and the world is dynamic.
Essay 802:
	The game of cricket has undoubtedly bowled over the native sports in the majority of the Asian and neighbouring continents. The popularity of the sport, as many suggests owes to the peculiarity of the game and the flamboyance of the players and team involved. Let us discourse the reasons below.
	It is quite obvious that native sports in these countries lack the enthusiasm and some unique features which cricket does not. Moreover, national sports are not being played on a global perspective compared to cricket these days. In addition to this, the younger generations are influenced by the game of cricket from their childhood. For example, in India, seldom would you find one describe his childhood devoid of cricket. Hockey being the national sport of India, will find itself miles away on the road to popularity compared to cricket.
	One other reason for its popularity would be the frequency of international tournaments or series that occur in the circle of cricket, whereas native sport does not acknowledge international viewers on such basis. As a result, cricket and its players splash around the media all the year around, making it closer the mass hearts. For example, the welcome that Australians received after winning the cricket world cup in 1996 acquired  a worldwide attention on television screens. The world witnessed India coming to a stand still on winning world cup following this.
	History favours the sub-continental countries teams to procure higher rankings in the cricket hierarchy, an illustrated reason for cricket’s popularity in these continents. The fact that majority of the tournaments in world cricket hangs around the Asian subcontinent also adds to the heap of reasons. Asia cup, Sharjah cup etc. exemplifies the same.
	In conclusion, the native sports are fading importance in the huge waves of roars applauding cricket. This phenomenon is getting more globalised and seems unstoppable. As a sports person myself, I opine that measures should be taken to promote the national sports because no sport is better than other unless played in the right spirit.
Essay 803:
	Undoubtedly, cricket is the well- known game among all the people in subcontinent countries. Since it gives more entertainment and greater competitions, it achieved higher popularity than the national sports. This essay intends to analyse the reasons for this phenomenon in detail.
	First of all, cricket is much more thrilling and interesting to watch and play for all age groups than other sports. To precise, people can be enjoyed by playing or even watching, which is the main attractive feature. For instance, in India, even though many people have busy life schedule, they are interested in watching cricket either through television or live because it gives more energy and happiness. Moreover, a lot of people including young and old find enough time to play cricket in their surroundings in spite of their unattended higher priorities. This is because of the attractive elements of cricket sport, which also enhance positive and vibrant qualities.
	Secondly, it is a team sport. In other words, teamwork is essential to play cricket successfully. Many people like these types of sports rather than solitary sports as people can show their strength and unity in front of others. Furthermore, players help each other to overcome the drawbacks. Such activities develop team spirit among players considerably.
	Most of the subcontinent countries including India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lana plays in international cricket and their successes in this game are tremendous. This is another reason cricket has gained a huge popularity in this part of the world. The national games like Hockey, kabaddi and volleyball are not attractive to people in these countries as there are fewer events of these games. It is obvious that mass people would show more enthusiasm in the sports where their national team play at the international level and become the best in the world.    
	Finally, unlike national sports, it is very to understand and learn. To explain, rules and regulations of cricket are much easier to learn for even a common man. Therefore its’ fame has reached greater heights. This would mean that cricket is very common and popular game in the sub- continental countries.
	In conclusion, despite it consumes a long time, it helps people to entertain and relax enormously than the national sports. I hope authority should consider these points and take appropriate measures to encourage people for playing national sports also.  
Essay 804:
	Hailing from a country where a cricketer is popularly known as the God, I can certainly say that cricket has outshone all other sports in the sub-continental countries including the national sports. Because of the popularity of cricket, all the other sports are being neglected or less frequently played or enjoyed. Some of the reasons, in my opinion, are media coverage, the business involved in sports, training resources and government support, different format of the sport and success rate of those countries in international tournaments.  
	First of all electronic and social media coverage has played an important role to make the cricket popular among the people in the sub-continental countries. In India and in other sub-continental countries, almost all national and international cricket matches are telecasted on several TV channels. Highlights of matches, cricket theme shows and interviews with the cricketers are very popular on TV. Because of this, people very seldom get a chance to know about other sports and are therefore largely unaware of them. Since the cricket teams in these countries do really well at the international level, people like to watch this sport more than they are interested in national sports. The huge success in international level is one of the most prominent reasons people in this continent like to play and watch this sport.  
	Second, cricketers are treated as celebrities and they are role models for many young and aspiring cricketers. The amount of money they earn and the focuses they get on media are quite overwhelming.  Sachin Tendulkar, for example, is very commonly known as the God of cricket in India. His popularity is such that there have been riots in his name. Almost all the international cricket players have huge fans and cricketers from Indian subcontinents like Imran Khan, Tendulkar, Wasim Akram, Afridi, Kohli, Rahul Dravid, Muralidharan etc. have more fans and followers than we can imagine.  Therefore marketing companies pay them highly to endorse their products. Again, cricket is one of the highest paying sports in sub-continental countries. Money – award money, match winnings and income from endorsements of the products, is very high as compared to any other sport. So naturally, the youngsters are inclined towards playing cricket.
	Moreover, training resources and government support for cricket is far more than that of national sports in these countries. Considering the commercial factor and popularity of cricket, the government also provides better facilities and resources for cricket training. There are also several private clubs and coaching centres for aspiring cricketers and current players in all major cities. Even in schools, cricket is the most encouraged and widely played sport. Finally, different formats of the sport make it more attractive to audiences of all ages. Earlier cricket used to be a winter sport, but now it is played year round. Different formats like test matches, one-day international, T-20, premier leagues and the glamour attached to this sport have enhanced the popularity of cricket than the national sports of these countries. Even many renowned movie stars are now the owners of the cricket clubs and this has further accelerated the popularity of this sport.
	In conclusion, everybody wants to enjoy a sport that has glamour and excitement attached. Thus national sports in the Indian sub-continent have lost their popularity to a great extent while cricket has become the craze in the sports world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1768-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-703-is-it-better-for-students-to-live-at-home-with-their-parents-or-in-school-accommodation",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1767-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-702-some-people-say-that-advertising-is-a-positive-part-of-our-lives",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1766-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-701-people-consider-computers-to-be-more-of-a-hindrance-than-a-help",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1765-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-700-film-stars-pop-musicians-or-sports-stars-are-paid-too-much-money",
Essay 805:
	Some people think that entertainers such as film stars, pop musicians or sports stars are paid too much money and I also feel that is true. I totally agree with this thought. Let's discuss in details.
	In today's world, we can categorise these entertainers are the highest earners in the society. Their earning is much higher than most of the people. This difference also leads to the making of more poor people within the society. I will describe in my view why these high salaries are unfair.Firstly, entertainers are also doing their job as other people in the world. Each and every individual in the workforce are giving some support to make the national income in a country. Therefore it is unfair to pay very big salaries to fewer people. Furthermore, payments should be done according to the job type, not considering the popularity.
	Secondly, these people earn much higher than well-educated ones in the society like doctors, engineers, accountants etc. It is not the best practise knowledge and wisdom are less valued here. This will definitely discourage young people to be professionals. Thirdly, paying very high salaries to the film stars, sports stars or musicians makes an unfair situation to the poor people who are working very hard to make ends meet. Most of the government servants might not get good wages as the government cannot arrange the money since entertainers are highly paid. We should not forget that these payment made by the government from everyone's money.
	To sum up I also feel that entertainers are highly paid and I think these payment systems should be done an intelligent and fairly way than this. I think salary scales must be designed very fairly than present. Wages might be plan considering various measures such as how hard is the job, educational level, profession. Moreover professionals like doctors, engineers, accountants, lecturers should be highly paid since it encourages society to be educated. But it is also should be at a balanced level.
Essay 806:
	Superstars of television, film and other media are given a big amount of money and it has become a controversial issue in the entire world. I am also in agreement with it and I would suggest that skilled workers also should be paid more. They are also real heroes of our societies. In the following paragraphs, I am going to discuss some of the reasons why we should not give too much money to the stars only for their fame.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1764-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-699-we-should-dress-what-we-feel-comfortable-in",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1763-suggest-how-families-could-be-brought-closer-together",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1762-it-is-better-to-promote-healthy-lifestyle-than-to-treat-the-ill",
Essay 807:
	One of the famous proverbs said by our ancestors is - “prevention is better than cure “; it’s better to take an earlier prevention rather than suffering at a later stage. The government has to take serious action in the earlier stage, it should provide all facility to make the environment clean. It should promote people to take necessary medication for the prevention of disease such as polio, rabies, Tuberculosis etc. It should not only provide facilities but it should also encourage people to lead a healthy, sober and peaceful life.
	On the other hand, it is not only important to take the prevention, but it should also take care of people who are already ill.  No all people in the society lead a same standard of living, they differ from each other. The majority of them are unable to get a simple medication for their health, hence it’s a duty of the government to provide some facility for these people. It should provide some concession or free health check-up for the people who are really unable to make it.
	To sum up, every human being has the equal right, none is greater or none is lower, it is necessary to give equal importance to both, a patient and an ill person to have a peaceful nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1761-some-people-spend-their-lives-living-close-to-where-they-were-born",
Essay 808:
	In the modern world, we see that many people migrate to faraway places, but, for most parts of history, people mostly chose to live close to the place where they were born and bred. There could be many reasons for this, and it has both advantages and disadvantages that this essay will deal with.
	Now, while there can be plenty of reasons behind people's desire to live close to their birthplace, the main reason is that it offers them a certain sense of security and comfort in their effort to survive, in an otherwise unknown world that is full of prejudiced thoughts, suspicion, hatred and animosity. People inherit property and lands where their ancestors lived, and this is another reason so many people feel connected to their birthplace where they know people and the culture to live as an integral part of society.
	Now, while this sense of security and comfort in itself is an advantage of living close to someone’s birthplace in a more broad and abstract sense, some of its more tangible benefits may include the opportunity to live close to the people, we love and care for. Another advantage is that because of living close to a place of our origin for a long time, we feel that we know its air, water and landscape so well that we can rely on these things for our physical and mental wellbeing.
	Of course, it has some disadvantages too. One such disadvantage would be that people, close to you, might interfere in your private matters, on and off, which can be a tad irritating at times. In fact, I have seen how one of my uncles moved far away from his birthplace because his in-laws kept meddling in his private matters against his wish. Besides, living close to where someone is born, which could also be his comfort zone, for too long might make someone a bit too lazy and scared to try new things in order to improve the quality of life and explore new opportunities.
	In conclusion, most people choose to live close to where they were born because it gives them a sense of security and makes them a part of society in which they blend quite well. This can have both merits and demerits that we should consider carefully before choosing to live in that place or leave it for another place.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1759-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-695-newspapers-have-a-great-influence-in-our-opinions-and-ideas",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1758-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-694-a-person-s-worth-nowadays-seems-to-be-judged-according-to-social-status",
Essay 809:
	We live in a world in which everyone is judgmental to the extent that one often makes inconsequential remarks in regards to things that does not affect one in the least bit, such as if other people are driving a Lamborgini or if they are carrying a Hermes bag. It seems as though old fashioned values such as honour, generosity, and trust do not amount to much in today's condemnatory world. Apropos of the statement, I am in part accordance with it.
	It is inarguable that a staggering number of people only consider about how their connection can bring advantages to them when befriending someone. For instance, one might think twice before making friends with someone who is kind but impoverished, as there is no benefit that is likely to stem from the connection. On the flip side, ingratiating with someone who displays ostentatious wealth might be more auspicious for one in the future.
	Similarly, one from a wealthy family might feel hesitant to befriend someone who is struggling to make ends meet, seeing as the latter is not on the same level with one in terms of social status. Also, there is no guarantee that one will not be on the receiving end of bullying if one befriends someone of a lower status. Case in point, kids from my school will not let Jaycea hear the end of it because she is friends with Elaine, a driver's daughter, notwithstanding the fact that Elaine is trustworthy and dependable.
	On the contrast, I also believe that it is unreasonable to stereotype the whole society based on the behaviour and way of thinking of some people. Like the aforementioned case in which Jaycea is willing to befriend Elaine despite being bullied, it shows that it is possible for some people to value trust and generosity over social status.
	To sum up, while it is commonplace for people to hold a higher value of material possessions and social status in this overcritical world, there are also people who value old fashioned values more and they are not to be overlooked.
Essay 810:
	It is true that people are judged based on their social status and personal wealth nowadays, and traditional values such as integrity and honesty are being forgotten. To a certain extent, I would agree with the fact that people are valued based on their wealth and status these days, but I also believe that old fashioned values still plays an important part in our societies.
	It is believed that we are living in the pop culture and materialistic era these days, as the public judge each individual based on his/her social status and wealth. It can be seen from how celebrities become famous nowadays. Many celebrities are being popular because of their physical appearance and personal wealth such Kim Kardashian. Her reality television program never shows any world class acting quality, but only shows about her luxurious mansions and fancy cars. And then there are other celebrities who are well known due to his/her social status as the son or the daughter of a wealthy family. One of the examples would be Paris Hilton. Although she has many bad attitudes, she is still popular because she inherits the assets of her parents.
	Although traditional values such as respect others, being responsible, honesty and integrity seem to be forgotten nowadays, but they still play an important part in many communities. In common cases, employers are still assessing their potential employees based their hard working attitude, positive behaviour and their integrity. And then business people are still looking for business partners who are reliable, can be trusted, and dependable. Therefore, it is important for adults to educate their children about these positive values because they still play an essential part in the societies.
	In conclusion, even though people are judged based on their wealth and social status nowadays, but I do believe that old fashioned values such as honour, respect and trust cannot be eliminated from our daily lives. Therefore we must teach our young generation about these cultures, in order for them to survive and succeed in the future. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1757-international-marketing-is-sometimes-seen-as-invasive-and-an-intrusion",
Essay 811:
	In the current world, international marketing is certainly believed as an introducing an illegal aspect into the economy of the host country. However, it is often considered by some that such type of marketing is significant for the economic form of knowledge as well as exchanging diverse culture, languages and customs. In my opinion, I strongly believe that international marketing promotes globalisation by opening new opportunities in future business and thus improve economic growth.
	International marketing has several advantages. Firstly, enhancing economic growth of the country would often be promoted by global marketing. In other words, it certainly opens new doors for future business. For instance, recent studies show that there should certainly a considerable growth in the field of international trade in electronic gadgets from countries such as Russia and China. In addition, International marketing often explores inner talent of citizens across the globe.
	Moreover, improving the brand reputation of the product would certainly have another plus point of the international business because product brands often gain reputation and popularity across the world. Multinational banks often attained reputation in the current scenario. Hence, local brands of the country would probably become familiar across the world by international marketing.
	Furthermore, spreading of ideas, customs, tradition and language would often possible by global trade, thus spreading diverse culture throughout the world. World food products in popular supermarkets such as Tesco and Asda would often show an example of global business networks, therefore, introducing global food into the country’s local trade market.
	In conclusion, international marketing should be promoted through the world for improving economic knowledge as well promoting different culture worldwide. Such promotion of international marketing should often possible without interrupting nation own local culture and trade by making awareness among citizen about its advantages.
Essay 812:
	The world has become a small global village due to the increasing international trade opportunity. As this facilitates numerous people to earn their bread and butter, avail global products in a marketplace, creates more opportunity for trade and marketing, and demolish monopoly in business, this is spreading faster than ever before. However, there are some who opine that international marketing is like an encroachment to a country’s own trade, policy, tradition, culture and freedom. In my view, international marketing really benefits the masses and offer countless advantages.
	Many prominent reasons are present for my opinion. First and foremost, international marketing enhances the relationship among nations as it invites other countries to invest and do business. This is beneficial for making a stronger bonding among nations. For example, many Asian countries now have a better relationship with Western countries due to the open international market. Secondly, international marketing provides everything for the commonality, even those things which they can not buy from their local market. Consumers, these days, have many choices and they can pick from many international brands. Third, this phenomenon offers better product quality at a competitive price. For example, we can get products from different brands in our local market easily these days and if I personally compare the prices of many of these products with the past, it has dropped due to the increasing competition.  Another significant benefit it offers is the reachability of our local products  in the international market.
	As every garden has weeds so as with the international marketing. Many local traders and the vendors face difficulties because they often fail to attract the consumers. The buyers like to go to the international malls and like to purchase the branded items rather than locally made products. In a way, this kills many local businesses. Finally, the international marketing and trade facilities often negatively affect the traditional ways of life and culture. For instance, the traditional Japanese lifestyle and unique culture have greatly been affected by many Western cultures and open market and international market is two of the key reasons for this shift.
	All in all, it can be enclosed that undoubtedly the world today is a common marketplace for every nation and it is impossible to remain unaffected by the impacts of the international marketing; practically which has more positive than negative consequences.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1755-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-692-many-traditional-skills-are-no-longer-required",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1754-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-691-printed-media-will-soon-be-a-thing-of-the-past",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1753-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-690-technology-has-made-our-life-easier",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1752-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-689-more-houses-are-needed-in-many-countries-to-cope-with-increasing-populations",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1751-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-688-professionals-of-other-important-sectors-are-comparatively-less-paid",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1750-essay-newspapers-will-soon-become-a-thing-of-the-past",
Essay 813:
	This change might be slow but inevitable. The internet is available everywhere - in houses, workplaces, café, restaurants, universities and schools and people can access to any newspaper of the world with few finger taps. Moreover, many people believe that it is cheaper to follow news on the internet than to buy a newspaper every day. Besides, it is easier to access, comment and share a news online, all it needs is just a few clicks and a wide range of choices and varieties are yours. Also, not only words but interactive videos of online news sources make reading the news more exciting and sometimes entertaining.  
	On the other hand, newspapers are still popular among many people as they find reading it more appealing. Senior citizens who are less familiar with the internet and new technologies mostly prefer it. Some parts of the world are yet to be connected to the internet and people there have no alternatives than to read a printed newspaper. However, with the rapid expansion of technology, the trend would be completely washed away by the digital technology.
	In conclusion, using the internet solely as a source of news and information has already become a trend in many parts of the world. Soon the world will find the printed newspaper a thing of the past, it is just a matter of time. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1749-children-should-be-co-operative-to-learn-more-and-to-become-better",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1748-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-685-children-today-play-very-violent-games",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1747-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-684-countries-should-start-using-nuclear-power-as-their-main-source-of-energy",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1745-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-683-is-watching-television-good-or-bad-for-children",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1744-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-682-studying-in-a-english-speaking-country-is-the-best-way-to-learn-english",
Essay 814:
	English is one of the most widely spoken languages around the world and it is indeed regarded as the "international language". It has taken the world by storm and everyone around the globe striving hard to master this language. Take the example of China, where you have the largest English speaking population. Some would suggest that the best way to learn a foreign language is by learning in the country where the language is being used as the natural choice. But in my view, there are several other options available to conquer the skill of English conversation.
	Learning English in your home country seems to be more viable and economical when compared to the option of going out in native English speaking countries. For instance, now there is a plethora of world renowned English teaching institution available across all over India in every nook and corner. So now it is easier to access these facilities and indeed these resources are quite affordable taking into consideration the fierce competition they need to tackle. Another feasible option is that now English teachers from around the globe have now started imparting their lessons on English via their websites. Some do it for free and sometimes you need to enrol for some online course by paying a fee. In terms of resource, there is an abundance of the same in the country itself. So going abroad for this doesn't seem rationale.
	Some would argue that being with native speakers in their country will certainly ensure an environment conducive to learn English in a faster and more efficient way. But you can simulate these environments here in your country as well by practising this language with the people you encounter on daily basis. In case there are fewer people to talk to, then there are numerous speaking communities available on the internet consisting of native English speakers.
	In short, the same experience that you'll get while learning in an English speaking country can be replicated in your country thanks to growing popularity of this language and the availability of internet around the globe.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1743-do-you-think-that-employees-in-certain-organizations-should-wear-a-uniform",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1742-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-680-schools-should-select-students-according-to-their-academic-abilities",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1739-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-679-rapid-technological-change-has-shaped-the-world-we-live-in-today",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1738-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-678-what-are-the-pros-and-cons-of-using-public-transport",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1737-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-677-host-country-should-welcome-the-cultural-diversity",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1736-most-of-the-poor-in-the-world-live-in-countries-where-tourism-is-a-growing-industry",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1735-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-675-government-can-control-the-population-through-taxes",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1734-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-674-many-employees-are-now-required-to-wear-a-uniform",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1733-environmental-problems-are-too-big-for-individuals-to-solve",
Essay 815:
	The environment has become a major concern over the last couple of decades, resulting in several debates on who should be responsible for ensuring its sustenance for our future generations. In this essay, we will discuss the point of views for establishing where the responsibility for the protection of the environment lies.
	There is a strong argument that individually we cannot contribute materially to the cause of preserving our environment because it encompasses several areas where individual efforts become futile. Some examples are factories that are emitting hazardous gases in our air or dumping dangerous materials in our rivers. If we want to take this up as an individual we cannot be expected to be able to prevent this from happening. One could argue that if each shareholder puts pressure on the companies that they own this could lead to building up of pressure for being more responsible, this, unfortunately, is not workable because usually the companies are mostly owned by funds that are managed by professionals, seeking profit and environment is very low on their priority list.
	The above leads us to deduct that if this movement of preserving our environment is a collaborative effort by the government and general public we stand a better chance of being successful. The government should provide the legal infrastructure to control the natural instinct of profiteering of all investment institutions; with this, the individual efforts could start making the difference. Continuing the above example if an individual member of the society notices that same happening in his or her surroundings, he or she can call on an implementation agency that would tackle the factory emitting hazardous gases and dumping dangerous materials. Examples of these implementation agencies include Environment control desk in the city office, environmental inspectors who randomly visit such factories and are empowered under the law to impose a fine or completely seal the production facility found in violation of the rules.
	The responsibility surely seems to be tilting towards the actions of individuals supported through government agencies and legislative framework, thus, in my opinion, the combined efforts of the government and public would be more effective. This should not, however, be interpreted as being absolved from keeping our environment clean and we can through cans and other non-degradable materials on the beach.
Essay 816:
	In the contemporary world, the concern for the degrading environment is at the peak. Some people believe it is difficult for an individual to make a difference, while others feel it cannot be solved without authorities intervening in the matter. This essay will discuss both sides in-depth and will also state why I strongly agree that the government have an indispensable role in such matters.
	To begin, many believe the task of saving mother nature is tedious for a single person. But if we introduce minor alterations to our day-to-day activities, we could probably eradicate the detrimental causes to our environment. For instance, we can always bring along a recycling bag while shopping so that usage of the plastic bag would decrease. These will definitely help in minimising the air pollution caused by burning plastic bags. Thus, such actions from an individual could lead to a healthy environment.
	In contrast, to individual actions, governments also play a vital role in providing checks to many such activities disrupting our ecosystem. Governments can impose stringent rules to be followed by its people. For example, the usage of plastic bags should be completely banned in the country, and this can only be forced by authorities. These regulations require judiciary powers to implement which reside with the respective officials. For this reason, the government plays the cardinal part in a process of abolishing effects causing damage to nature.
	To conclude, environmental degradation is increasing at an enormous rate. These problems should be tackled with the collaboration of an individual along with governments. Would it be ungreat? I firmly acknowledge the governments have a prominent role in resolving these issues.
Essay 817:
	In today’s modern world, we are constantly confronted with the issue of environmental problems which are becoming more severe nowadays in the newspaper. Some people are of the opinion that individuals can hardly make a change to environmental problems, while some believe that governments can help in solving environmental issues. I strongly agree that governments do play an indispensable role in tackling these problems.
	Some people think that the environmental problems are not an easy task for individuals to deal with, but in fact, we can actually take up some good habits which could prove useful in dealing with environmental problems. For example, we can always bring along recycle bags with us so that we can cut down the usage of plastic bags. It can be clearly seen that individuals can actually contribute to helping reduce environmental issues as fewer plastic bags being used means that less air pollution which is caused by the burning of plastic bags in the rubbish dump sites.
	It is certainly true that environmental problems cannot be solved without the help of governments. To begin, governments have more power than individuals in coping the environmental problems. They can, for instance, set up laws that ban the emission of wastes from factory directly into the air and watercourses. As a consequence, less air pollution and water pollution guarantee the good health of citizens. By doing this, citizens will be healthier and they can now live in a pollution-free country.
	In conclusion, environmental problems should be tackled immediately with the cooperation of individuals and governments. I believe that the environmental problems will be solved one day and our country will continue to prosper and flourish in the years to come.
Essay 818:
	Pollution becomes a major concern in society all over the world. In society, not only an individual but also groups of people live. In society, it is everyone’s responsibility to protect the environment. Environmental problems caused by pollution, for example, fuel gases, cutting of trees, gases released by factories. The government should take responsibility to reduce pollution in order to protect the environment.
	Every individual who is leaving in society should take responsibility to participate in protecting the environment. Firstly, people should grow trees in their houses, premises and colonies. By growing trees there are huge advantages, for example, most of the polluted gases took over by trees and they release the oxygen. Everyone should not throw the wastages on the roads, maintain a healthy environment by using the dustbins.
	At the same time if we consider the government’s role: the government have authority to protect the environment. By planting the trees all over the places, for example, all government places, besides the roads, schools, and parks etc., what I know this type of programme called a clean and green environment. Thus the pollution can be controlled.  Cleanliness is very important to maintain a healthy environment, hence government should emphasise the cleaners to clean the area thoroughly. Should place the dustbin every street and educate the individuals by advertisements. Inspect the houses every month to check how the individuals maintain their houses so that the individuals reflect themselves and self-correct themselves. Conduct environmental talks in the school, that individual learns everything from childhood onwards in the school.
Essay 819:
	Environmental problems have dramatically increased over the last few years. A rapid increase in population and other problems such as pollution, deforestation, global warming etc. have further exacerbated the situation. Some people argue that these problems are too large to be addressed by an individual being. I believe that it is a mutual responsibility of both individuals and countries to take pragmatic measures for its solution.
	Overpopulation is one of the pivotal reasons that have detrimental effects on the environment. Increase in population demand more food resources, living space and other basic amenities of life. For instance, for the sake of accommodation many natural parks and forests have been wiped out to fulfil the need for living space. This has lead to severe consequences that could damage both the people and the environment.
	Individual efforts can contribute a lot to address the pressing environmental problems. Steps taken at an individual level can be an effective solution for the world. For instance, if the government of a country takes initiatives to reduce the rubbish produced daily, can’t do much. However, if the citizens take effort from their personal level, rubbish production could be controlled tremendously. Similarly, if the administration of a country starts planting trees, the effort would not go further without the collaboration of the individuals.
	Pollution is also a great menace to the environment. It is not only the reason of environmental problems but also has a dire effect on people. Factories operating within cities emit dangerous smoke and other harmful toxins, which are enormously affecting people health and making them more susceptible to diseases. Furthermore, pollution also contributes to global warming. There has been a drastic increase in temperature around the globe, which in turn, melts glaciers across the world. These are no longer national issues and all the governments of the world should work together to address this pressing problem. That is why prudent decisions are required from the government level and the ordinary citizens should be encouraged and participate in every way possible to make the world a better place to live in.
	To sum up, I would like to say that environmental problems should be addressed on a large scale. Everyone has to contribute in order to mitigate its vulnerable effects on the world. Even a little effort by an individual can make a huge difference.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1732-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-672-newspapers-have-an-enormous-influence-in-people-s-opinions-and-ideas",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1731-majority-of-criminals-who-were-sent-to-prison-would-commit-crimes-when-set-free",
Essay 820:
	Based on the social community research, it is found that most of the criminals, who have been released from prisons, have the tendency to commit crimes again. The following essay will discuss in details about the various factors that have caused the situation and some of the ways to address the issue.
	To begin with, many criminals who have finished their punishment period in jails have the tendency to do crime activities again. Based on the research of these convicts, it is found that most of these people have difficulties in finding employments when they are back in communities. When employers see their track records, they would be straightly rejected since many employers have the perception that an ex-criminal is a negative person. As a consequence, many of these people have committed crimes again in order for them to survive.
	However, there are some ways in which communities and governments could do to solve the problem. Firstly, convicts should be equipped with some useful skill for them during the detention period. Therefore when they are released, they would be beneficial for societies and communities. One of the examples would be by providing some technical courses such as plumbing or mechanical courses. Secondly, the government and neighbours should cooperate in establishing cooperative institutions, whereas, they will hire or recruit ex-criminal persons. These institutions could provide services to societies as  a mechanical workshop, saloon or cleaning service facilities.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that many criminals, who have been released from jails, are mostly doing criminal activities again. They do that because they feel that they are not welcomed by the public. And to cope with the issue, governments and societies should cooperate in providing some skill and workplaces for these ex-crime persons.      
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1730-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-670-some-people-think-parents-should-read-or-tell-stories-to-children",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1729-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-669-women-should-play-an-equal-role-as-men-in-a-country-s-police-force-or-military-force",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1728-many-goods-including-what-we-use-as-daily-basic-produced-by-other-countries",
Essay 821:
	This is the era or globalisation and world trade and business. This has enabled us to keep better diplomatic and business relationship with many other countries and products produced in a country could easily be found in another country.  However, this requires the products and foods to be travelled to a long distance before reaching to the consumers of other countries and this has both negative and positive consequences. In my opinion, this has far more advantages than the drawbacks.
	On one hand, a country should first try to be self-sufficient rather than relying heavily on imported goods. Foods, vegetables and fruits should not be imported from other countries since the long distance travel of such commodities degraded their food values. Moreover, importing from other countries is quite costly. Finally, a country should try to produce daily necessities by themselves as it would eradicate the poverty, unemployment and would also make sure the better economic progress of a country.
	On the contrary, the advantages of the global economy and trade are highlighted often and it is true that being self-sufficient for all countries are quite impossible. Some countries are better for agriculture, some for industrial productions, some for food processing and some others for technologies and thus each nation has their unique ability to do well in some specific sectors. Thus no country can locally produce everything their people need. First and foremost advantages of importing products from other countries is that a country can enjoy those short of goods without even producing them. For instance, many countries enjoy tea and coffee even though they do not locally produce them. Second, sometimes importing is less expensive than producing something and not every country has the environment and manpower to do so. Third, transportation system nowadays is becoming more efficient and in the near future, it will take less time to supply goods from another country to another. The global economy enables a country to export products to other nations rather than wasting them and this has proven to be a strong revenue earning area for many countries. People nowadays have more choices of their products and global economy hit the monopoly so hard that people can enjoy global branded products at a competitive price.
	In summary, more time to transport daily commodities from one country to other has some demerits. However the endless advantages they bring are quite overwhelming.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1727-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-667-rich-countries-should-not-employ-skilled-labour-from-poor-countries",
Essay 822:
	Brain drain is a much-debated issue and many people believe that developed countries should not provide work for skilled professionals from developing or poor nations since they are better utilised in the homeland. I personally believe that this system should be stopped as it would make poor countries poorer while rich countries would be richer in long run.
	First, poor countries can produce only a handful number of talented people each year through their broken economic and educational system. The government and public money are spent to support those students and professionals and when they are ready to serve the country, rich nations actually hijack them. This is quite unethical and a majority of the migrated professionals serve the migrated countries than the countries they were born. This system allows the developed countries to have a large number of talented professionals, scientists, writers, engineers, doctors and so on while poor countries suffer from the scarcity of such experts. These talented and qualified people are the keys to the development of a poor country and they should serve their motherland.  
	Second, a developed country already has a large number of skilled labours and expert workers and they can do quite well without alluring skilled professionals to come and work there.  For instance, the number of native astronomers and scientists in the United States is already huge and they could easily do without brain draining talented and skilled professionals from other countries. Rich countries have a natural obligation to actually send their proficient workers to work and train citizens of poor nations for the betterment of the world. Employing skilled labours from other countries is actually a practice that ruins the equilibrium of development in the world.
	Finally, many skilled labours that migrate to the first world countries often end up working in a sector which is simply irrelevant to their education and skill and hence is a wastage of talent and time. For instance, many doctors and engineers in first world countries actually work in a restaurant or drive a cab only because they were migrated from poor countries and failed to show their worthiness. They could have better serve the humanity by being enrolled in their original professions in their homelands.
	In conclusion, the better lifestyle and more money are the reasons skilled labours migrate to rich countries and this brain drain system should be stopped for the overall betterment of the world. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1726-production-of-consumer-goods-results-in-damage-to-the-natural-environment",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1725-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-665-children-should-obey-rules-or-do-what-their-parents-and-teachers-want-them-to-do",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1724-poor-students-often-find-it-difficult-to-get-access-to-university",
Essay 823:
	It is believed that students who come from a low-income family background or remote areas find some difficulties in continuing their undergraduate and graduate studies, therefore it is suggested that college and universities should provide special pathways for them. To a certain point, I would agree with the statement, but there should be additional requirements that these students must fulfil and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	On the one hand, many students who come from a poor family or live in a rural area found some difficulties in entering universities. It is mostly due to the low quality of secondary education. The low-class students could only enrol to low-quality schools, while for those who live in remote areas, they are taught by junior teachers, who are still gaining some teaching experiences. As a result, they could not get the maximum quality education that they should get, and could not compete with other students when they participate in the registration test for entering universities. Therefore, it is suggested that post-secondary institutions should allocate some seats and provide some subsidy for them.
	However, despite the special pathways, the institutions should provide some entry tests and academic background checking for these students. Universities must ensure that these students have some potential and eagerness to learn, and they have good academic scores in their secondary school studies, therefore the allocated seats and subsidised funds would not be a waste. This filter is a must since many of these students are entering universities but they are serious about learning and studying.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that students from low economy background or live in rural areas find difficulties in entering post-secondary schools. Many people suggested that these institutions should give special pathways for them. I do agree with the statement, but some test should be given to these students, therefore only those who are serious in studying will be enrolled.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1723-some-people-support-development-of-agriculture",
Essay 824:
	To begin with, many farmers are using technology and scientific approaches to managing their farms these days. They believe that by using technology such as tractors and dozers or using advanced chemical fertiliser, it will increase their productivity. However, many people do not realise that the usage of these advanced technological approaches has some side effects. For example, many fruits and vegetables that use pesticides have caused allergic diseases in human beings. And then, the over usage of pesticides in farming has made pests became more immune and made the ecosystem became imbalanced.
	On the other hand, some farmers are still using the old-fashioned ways. They manage their plantations using traditional tools such as using cows, horses and traditional carts. And they prefer to use natural seeds, rather than using special seeds, which was created by scientists. Although the productivity of these farms is definitely lower, they generate healthier foods for mankind. As a result, many people prefer to purchase organic fruits and vegetables nowadays, as they realise that qualities of these organic foods are better than the industrialised ones.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that some farmers are in favour of using advanced technology and scientific approaches in handling their farms, while others still use the traditional ways. Both approaches have their own benefits and drawbacks, but in my opinion, traditional ways are still better than the modern one, as organic foods are healthier for consumption.
Essay 825:
	This global population explosion has reduced the farming lands and has overwhelmingly increased the demand for food. To accord with the demand, many have already adopted intensive animal farming and creation of fruits while others still follow the traditional ways of farming. Both approaches have merits and drawbacks but to feed the hungry mouths, scientific approaches to produce more food should be welcomed with proper research.
	To begin with, traditional farming produces fresh and hygienic food that have a proper nutrition. This approach also keeps the land fertile and do not make animal stocks that have been genetically modified. Consuming farm-fresh fruits and organic food is the secret to have a healthier life. However, the food production in this procedure is costly and sluggish.   
	On the contrary, the world population has already reached to over 7.6 billion and it is increasing rapidly. More population means fewer lands for cultivation. From this regards, I believe that scientific methods for producing more food at a reduced price is a timely demand. Intensive animal farming or industrial livestock production maximize production while minimizing production costs and this is a necessary step to feel the global food demand, I believe. To cite an example, the majority of the rural households in developing countries had farming lands and animal stocks to meet the demand for the family. These lands are shrinking to accommodate new family members and most of these households now rely on food items purchased from the market. If farmers do not adopt technology and scientific methods to produce more, people would starve. 
	To conclude, we should employ scientific methods to support the development of agriculture at the current era where food demand is higher than any other time in the history, but proper research should be in place to ensure hygiene and quality of these productions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1722-cheap-air-flight-gives-ordinary-people-more-freedom",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1721-it-is-better-for-younger-people-to-be-leaders",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1719-government-should-spend-money-on-road-systems",
Essay 826:
	Roads are indispensable for an effective transportation system for the public. Though there are other modes of transportation, road system occupies the paramount place due to its convenience and less cost. Some people think that the government should pay for the road system, while others are on the view that drivers or car owners should responsible for it. This essay examines both these aspects.
	On the one hand, there are some grounds to support the view that drivers should pay on the road system. Firstly, drivers will become more responsible. That is, if they have to pay for road transport, it creates the feeling of ‘ours’ and as a result, they avoid harsh driving and become more concern about roads. Another important benefit is that it may cause a decline in the number of drivers. To make it clearer, when drivers should pay for the road system, people depend on public transport in order to reduce financial loss. Hence the number of private vehicles decreases.
	On the other hand, it is quite easy to understand the reasons for the government should pay on the road system. Primarily, it is the responsibility of the government should spend money on the road system. Because public pay tax amount and this money should be used for their development itself. Secondly, if the government is responsible, it leads to a wide range of developments and aids in communication and transportation in the public and national prosperity is the end products. Moreover, the government can use modern technology as large-scale projects in order to improve the road system and in turn it helps the public. In addition, people can reduce the burden on them when a government spends on these public activities.
	To conclude, when we weigh both aspects, it is crystal clear that the government can spend more effectively and efficiently for the road system rather than the drivers. But every person should work hand in hand and along with authority to maintain proper transportation methods.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1718-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-659-when-famous-people-support-international-aid-general-public-think-about-it",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1717-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-658-compare-and-contrast-knowledge-gained-from-experience-with-knowledge-gained-from-books",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1715-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-657-it-is-wise-to-spent-more-money-to-prevent-illness-than-to-spend-on-curing",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1714-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-656-children-in-many-countries-are-getting-involved-in-paid-jobs",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1712-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-655-some-people-prefer-to-travel-around-town-by-car",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1711-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-654-children-in-many-countries-are-eating-more-fast-food-and-convenience-snacks",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1710-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-653-people-choose-to-move-out-from-the-area-where-they-grew-up",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1709-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-652-what-criteria-should-be-used-to-decide-how-much-people-are-paid",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1708-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-651-we-have-become-more-independent-in-modern-world",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1707-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-650-some-people-think-one-should-stay-all-their-life-in-the-same-job",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1706-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-649-international-exchange-visits-will-offer-various-benefits-for-teenage-school-students",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1705-should-we-reduce-tourist-flights-in-order-to-reduce-pollution",
Essay 827:
	Pollution is one of the serious threats which have pernicious influences on our environment and people. It is a common and widely discussed issue of whether we should reduce the number of tourist flights to reduce pollution. This essay examines the pros and cones of this and draws a reasonable conclusion.
	On the one hand, there are some strong grounds to support the opinion of reducing the number of tourist flights to control air pollution. Firstly, air flights not only causes air pollution, but it also contributes to noise pollution. Hence it affects the environment as well as people at the same time. Another important reason is- it is not always income-generating, while it depends on seasons and it may lead to economical losses.
	On the other hand, it is fairly easy to understand the reasons for not reducing tourist flights with the view of pollution control. Firstly, it is not only the reason for pollution. Also reducing tourist flights does not have an impact on pollution. However, we adopt other possible strategies to limit pollution. Primarily, we should develop technologies to build neat and clean flights especially with any technology to cap the carbon emission which is the prime cause of air pollution. Secondly, we can alter the schedule and number of tourist flights. To make it clearer, arrange these flights in such a way that it could reduce financial loss. Thus we can arrange more flights in the appropriate seasons with correct destinations.
	To conclude, when we analyse the different aspects, it is proved beyond doubt that we should not reduce the number of tourist flights rather arrange in a systematic and accessible way to increase national economy. The government should implement better strategies to boost our prosperity.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1699-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-647-what-features-make-an-advertisement-effective",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1698-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-646-sports-professionals-earn-a-lot-more-than-people-in-other-important-professions",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1697-globalization-has-many-positive-effects-on-world-s-economy",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1696-best-way-to-reduce-crime-is-longer-prison-sentences",
Essay 828:
	Crime is a serious problem across the globe and all countries are trying to deal with this pressing issue. A section of the society believe that prison sentences for a longer duration can help reduce the crime, whilst others disagree and argue that there are other better ways to solve this. This essay agrees with the argument that alternative ways such as educating people and giving them resources to earn are far more beneficial than confining them to a prison cell. This essay will discuss both points of view.
	To begin with, many people believe that offenders should be punished with long prison sentences because this phenomenon can invoke fear among other criminals. In other words, if a person is already aware of the intensity of punishment before committing any crime, it will discourage him from becoming a criminal. For example, in the UAE, the rapist and the murderer usually get lifetime prison sentences, resulting in making people think twice before committing any serious crime. Hence, imposing strict punishment deters people from committing atrocities.
	However, I believe that alternative ways such as providing proper education facilities and employment can solve the issues far more effectively. Sufficient education and job opportunities keep the masses busy and away from crimes. To exemplify, in Sweden education is free for everyone and the country’s authority is continuously working for more employment opportunities. That is the reason why Sweden tops the list of peaceful countries where the crime rate is almost ignorable.
	In conclusion, longer prison terms certainly instil fear in the minds of potential criminals and discourage them from committing offences. However, eradicating the root cause of crime by providing education and employment opportunities is a far better option.
Essay 829:
	In the modern century, the world suffers from the increase of crime rate throughout many nations. This eventually breeds the fear of innocent civilians and forces them to demand stronger punishment on those who committed a crime. Some insist giving prisoners longer prison sentence, and others insist alternative ways will be more effective and I lay my thoughts alongside the alternative ways as well.
	There are many benefits of sentencing offenders longer prison period. The longer the criminals who committed serious damage to others such as steal, violence, arson and murder are separated from the society, the higher the chances of the innocence being safe increases dramatically. During the time in prison, the offenders will have an opportunity to get them rehabilitated through many services available inside. For instance, they could reflect their own behaviour and educate themselves the way not to re-offend once they are released. Moreover, this long period of the prison sentence will work as a deterrent to future criminals.
	On the other hand, others argue that there are more effective ways to reduce the crime rate. They insist that sparing their life after committing serious crimes involving one’s life will be only wasting the tax that citizens paid. Hence to sentence to death will show a powerful warning to other, which result in a stiff drop in crime rate. In my opinion, these people can be of the service to the whole community during their imprisonment. The labour force from these criminals will be a great contribution to the societies. It does not imply that these violent and dangerous people will be released and walk around the inner city freely. They will be under heavy supervision. For example, they will be tied to the heavy chains and placed in construction sites to assist the building companies or they could be working as farmers when the harvesting season comes.
	To summarise, there are clear grounds both for and against long imprisonment. Thus the government must protect innocent lives from brutal and reckless criminals by researching the best method out of all these fine arguments.
Essay 830:
	Crime levels have been increasing at an exorbitant rate in the recent decades. The methods with which to kerb the rising levels of crime are often a debated topic. Some argue that the best way to reduce delinquency is to give longer prison sentences, while others contend that there are better alternatives to tackle this epidemic. Both sides of this debate will be analysed in this essay before a reasoned conclusion is drawn.
	Many believe that handing out longer jail sentences is the right measure to be employed, this makes sense as the main purpose of such punishments is to deter individuals from committing crimes in the first place. For instance, Saudi Arabia, where ramifications for committing a crime are much harsher than the rest of the world, has much lower crime rates than even the most developed nations. This example illustrates the fear that harsher sentences can instil in the hearts of potential criminals. Hence, it is obvious why this point of view has garnered support.
	On the contrary, some argue that there are better alternatives than longer prison sentences such as educational programs and community services. Take a study conducted by a non-profit organisation in my area, for example, which found out that people become more empathetic after spending time with people from disadvantaged backgrounds. As a result of this increased sympathy, people are less likely to commit heinous crimes. Therefore, it is comprehensible why this is a popular opinion among many.
	After musing upon both sides of this argument, it is felt that a balance should be struck between handing out longer prison sentences and other measures. It is hoped that felony rates will be decreased in the coming years and the world will become a safer place to live in.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1695-how-important-is-it-for-individuals-and-the-country-to-think-and-do-something-for-the-future",
Essay 831:
	Planet earth is filled with love, sorrows, sufferings, thrilling moments and adventures and so on. With the passage of the time, we are falling deep into our own world and have stopped thinking about our future and generations to follow. Few people believe that our present is of vital significance, others, however, argue that we should focus more on our future. This essay will analyse both views before presenting an opinion.
	Without any doubt, our present is very important as things we plan, decisions we make and measures we take now have long-term benefits to our future generations. People believe that one should do efforts to make the present time better and people should not worry about the future which no can predict to perfection. Efforts should be made to utilise the current time for the betterment of individuals and society as a whole. Moral lessons and virtuous deeds taught today will make our children valuable citizens in future. Moreover, the present time quickly becomes the past and will not be repeated. People sometimes regret not enjoying a particular moment or even more as they were busy or distracted by other things at that time.
	On the contrary, few people believe that we should plan for our future as it is vital for our survival. Proponents of this viewpoint say that we should define policies and regulations to bring improvement to our core system including transportation, power distribution, air travel, housing and so on. These improvements will have significant value in future. For instance, efforts should be made to improve the education system at the grass root level so that we have more brilliant and talents students which will our future prospect. Our future not only depends on the measure and steps taken at the national level but we have to think and work on an individual basis to improve our future. Individuals should take part in community welfare service, for instance, they can take the responsibility to educate a child or provide employment to poor and needy people. These actions will make them better citizens who are the future of our society. 
	To recapitulate, the aforementioned provide plausible arguments in favour of both views. However, in my opinion, both present and future have equal importance as we reap in future what we sowed in the past.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1694-some-companies-reward-employees-for-exceptional-work-by-giving-them-extra-money",
Essay 832:
	It is undeniable fact that motivation often helps to encourage people and it has been in vogue recently at a workplace, which is applied by employers to uplift the performance of employees. Therefore, each organisation uses diverse methods to encourage workers like incentives, money. However, only money cannot be the best way all the time for everyone.
	On one hand, employees who have financial goals will be reinforced easily by money. The first and foremost case is that money is acceptable for many workers. One good illustration is that everyone works to earn the livelihood. Consequently, extra money motivates people to work extra. Make one more case that money is a simple way to reward people. It is obvious that workers would compete to raise productivity or standards. Hence, the company’s ranking and revenue will improve.
	On the other hand, some people hold the opinion that money does not always work. To begin with, if employees are highly paid then money may not be sufficient. Thus, employees will prefer other benefits. For instance, an award ceremony or dinner, club membership, travel ticket, car and so on. Moreover, money may set employees against each other, leading to conflict in the office. Therefore, it is difficult to determine standard or basis for the decision to reward an employee.
	To sum up, I would like to say there are many other ways to motivate people because amount may not bear relation to what the employee does. Companies should maintain certain rules for employee reinforcement.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1693-developed-countries-often-give-financial-aid-to-developing-countries",
Essay 833:
	Developed nations are often seen providing economic assistance to the third world nations. However, it does not always help in reducing poverty and therefore it is argued that less affluent nations must be provided with an alternatives form of aid. This essay discusses why poor countries can be better off from such assistance and types of help that can be offered.
	One of the main reasons why developing nation should be assisted in other ways is because money can solve problems only for the temporary period. It is not a long-lasting approach to tackling poverty. To illustrate, a developed nation can build schools for poor nations but the expenses that incur later in regards to student's fees and teacher's wages may force to close the institution. This is because foreign aid may not be able to support for longer periods. Thus, it is highly essential that developed countries should find alternatives when helping the poorer nations.
	There are different kinds of aids that affluent nations can provide to address this problem. First and foremost, young people could be given necessary training in various fields such as technology, modern agriculture, teaching, technical skill, communication etc. This helps them to find employment in their own countries or they can apply jobs to other rich nations. Another important option is investing in prosperous and promising sectors in the poor nations. If first world nations such as the USA opens its companies in third world countries like India, Pakistan, Nepal etc. many people can be highly benefited as such industries can create many local jobs.
	In conclusion, there are many advantages if rich nations can provide alternative forms of aids instead of capital because financial support is only the short term approach to tackling the issue. In future, it is suggested that such new approaches need to be continued.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1692-many-children-these-days-have-an-unhealthy-lifestyle",
Essay 834:
	We often hear of an escalating trend in children leading to feeble lifestyles in media. Although many believe that both parents and educational institutes share equal responsibility in addressing this growing problem, I disagree and feel that it is the utmost responsibility of the parents to change the unhealthy etiquette of adolescents.
	Being the primary caretakers, parents spend most of the time with their children and parent's eating habits influence them. Parents can become the role model for their children, by making healthy choices of what nutritious food they should have and physical activities to participate in that will main the equilibrium in life. For instance, if children observe that their parents prefer nutritious meal over junk food, exercise regularly to remain fit and participate in different sporting events or physical activities, child habits will change for the better. Being the guardian and mentor they can be very effective than schools in changing their lifestyle.
	Furthermore, teaching institutes are primarily focused on providing elementary education to the students. Their job is to concentrate more on improving their skills, team building, help them in their coursework and develop their personality.  They usually have less time to look into their dietary plans or how they behave at home. Moreover, they cannot control what a child does in their spare time.
	To conclude, I believe that only parents can effectively address the unhealthy ways of living of children. As primary caretakers, they are close to their children and their responsibility is more than that of schools.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1691-when-someone-gets-old-they-often-go-to-live-in-a-home-with-other-old-people",
Essay 835:
	As a part of the population in a country grows older, the issue of who should take care of the old population has been up for debate. Some believe that the family should take care of the old people while others believe that the government should take responsibility for their old citizens. I believe that the government and the family both have equal responsibility towards the aged population and instead of looking at the moral issues; we need to focus on what is better for them.
	There are many families who are willing but are unable to look after their old parents and relatives due to certain factors such as poor financial situation. On the other hand, we have some families who capable but are just unwilling to look after their old ones due to various reason such as ideological differences etc. In both of those cases, I think it's better for the government to take the responsibility and look after the aged family members since the whole issue is how can we make sure those individuals live their remaining life comfortably. Forcing the families that just can't or aren't willing to look after their old members will only make the situation worse for the people we're trying to help.
	On the other hand, we have lots of families which are both capable and are more than happy to look after their loved ones once they grow older. Well in those cases, the solution is quite clear and there seems to be no reason for the government to interfere.
	All in all, I think that the issue of who should look after the old population depends on those factors listed above and our policy must act in the interest of the old population so that they can enjoy their rest of the remaining years of their life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1690-some-people-think-older-employees-are-more-useful-to-a-company",
Essay 836:
	It is observed that the success of any organisation is dependent on the employees of that business. However, different individuals have varied opinions about the peer group to be employed. According to one camp, mature workers are valuable to the company, while according to other camp, freshers are more beneficial. Both these views will be critiqued before reaching the reasoned conclusion.
	On the one hand, there is a group of individuals who argue that elder workforce is advantageous for the firm. The main reason for this belief is the amount of knowledge and experience gained by these employees in their job tenure. Having a full understanding of the system used within cooperation will not only help them to take accurate decisions, but also help them to identify pitfalls at a much earlier stage. Thus, it is apparent that such capable group of employees can add a positive value to the company's growth.
	On the other hand, some argue that freshers play a significant role in the growth of industries. These undeveloped bodies are fresh to the market and, thereby, are flexible enough to adapt the changes within a company. In addition to this, these forces are always eager and willing to learn and therefore, bring new ideas and perspectives to the workplace. Thus, the theory that employing youth in enterprises is worthwhile is difficult to debunk.
	After analysing these two points, it is believed that both of these generations have their own important roles in the company's progress. It is thus hoped that organisations will employ an equal number of junior and senior people in order to experience stable growth.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1689-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-637-games-are-as-important-for-adults-as-they-are-for-children",
Essay 837:
	It is unanimously agreed that games are deemed to be the first entertainer for humans all over the world. Some people assume that such games are essential for both adults and children. However, other people believe that games are only meant to be for children. For many reasons, which will be mentioned below, I strongly reckon that games are supposed to be only for children.
	Firstly, we all know that games waste the time and divert the person from his aims in life. Therefore, when adults use these games, their times will be spent aimlessly. Moreover, they will not achieve their goals in life due to those silly games. For example, my brother, who is a university student, is immensely engrossed in those games and he spares no time for his study. As a result, his marks are always low and he cannot do anything about that.
	Secondly, it is generally admitted that all kinds of games are designed only for entertainment. Accordingly, such adults who play these games will focus only on joyfulness and trivial things. Additionally, they will pay no attention nor take care of what is important or useful for them. Hence, those adults, in future, will be without aims or goals to achieve and their interests will be lightened only on these trivial things.
	On the other hand, children are allowed to play these games because they have no responsibility to overtake or ambition to reach. Additionally, children are not blamed when they play games since these games are the only thing children can do. Also, instead of wasting their times with bad friends, children had better enjoy and spend their times on games.
	To sum up, games should only be attributed to children. Unlike children, adults have responsibilities to take many responsibilities and set goals to go ahead. No matter how difficult this opinion would be for the adults, yet they will know and realise this notion in their future. Applying the above, adults will be with a good mentality and will positively contribute to the growth of their communities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1688-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-636-salary-is-the-major-factor-considered-while-choosing-the-job",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1687-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-635-traditionally-women-play-the-role-of-upbringing-their-children",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1686-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-634-artists-should-support-their-own-financing-or-should-be-funded-by-alternative-sources",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1685-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-633-it-is-necessary-for-governments-to-impose-a-higher-tax-on-fast-food",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1684-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-632-poor-countries-should-become-rich-first-and-reduce-co2-emissions-later",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1683-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-631-in-your-opinion-who-should-be-responsible-for-enforcing-strict-building-codes",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1682-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-630-most-people-agree-that-money-cannot-bring-happiness",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1681-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-629-it-is-necessary-to-travel-to-other-places-to-learn-about-other-cultures",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1680-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-628-suggest-some-measures-that-could-be-taken-to-reduce-the-impact-of-ageing-populations",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1679-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-627-what-are-the-reasons-for-the-creation-of-throwaway-societies",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1678-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-626-capital-punishment-is-essential-to-control-violence-and-crime-in-society",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1677-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-625-some-people-think-that-dangerous-sports-should-be-banned",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1676-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-624-discuss-the-benefits-of-group-study-and-individual-learning",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1675-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-623-distance-learning-programmes-can-never-be-as-good-as-courses-taken-in-person",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1674-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-622-childhood-obesity-is-becoming-a-serious-problem-in-many-countries",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1673-car-ownership-has-increased-rapidly-over-past-thirty-years",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1672-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-620-female-leadership-is-a-better-option-for-the-society",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1671-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-619-robots-will-play-an-important-role-in-future-societies",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1670-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-618-young-people-face-many-problems-including-juvenile-delinquency",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1669-most-of-the-high-level-positions-in-government-and-private-organisations-are-owned-by-men",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1668-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-616-what-are-the-benefits-and-drawbacks-of-the-extensive-usages-of-computers",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1667-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-615-many-people-prefer-to-live-in-a-city",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1666-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-614-people-have-different-hobbies",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1665-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-613-some-people-like-to-spend-free-time-with-the-friends-of-same-age",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1664-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-612-today-there-are-many-highly-qualified-graduates-without-employment",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1663-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-611-people-should-work-a-fixed-number-of-hours-per-week",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1662-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-610-it-is-important-to-be-good-at-social-interaction-in-order-to-get-ahead-at-work",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1661-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-609-single-young-people-in-many-countries-leave-their-parents-for-study-and-job",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1660-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-608-rich-nations-should-help-poor-countries-with-their-basic-needs",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1659-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-607-overpopulation-in-many-major-urban-centres-around-the-world-is-a-major-problem",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1658-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-606-children-are-engaged-in-different-kinds-of-paid-work",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1655-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-605-computers-will-become-more-intelligent-than-human-beings",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1654-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-604-money-is-the-most-significant-consideration",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1653-what-are-the-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-changing-career",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1652-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-602-what-ways-could-mobile-phone-and-the-internet-be-useful-to-old-people",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1651-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-601-it-is-more-important-to-spend-public-money-on-promoting-healthy-lifestyle",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1650-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-600-people-always-throw-the-old-things-away-when-they-buy-new-things",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1649-more-and-more-young-people-hold-the-important-positions-in-the-government",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1648-children-spend-more-time-watching-tv-than-they-did-in-the-past",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1647-technology-and-automation-have-reduced-the-need-for-manual-labour",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1646-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-596-main-benefit-of-international-cooperation-is-in-protection-of-the-environment",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1645-some-children-can-learn-efficiently-by-watching-tv",
Essay 838:
	TV, as a learning tool, is quite useful if children watch the right programmes for a certain duration of time each day. Though some people regard watching the TV as a waste of time, I do believe that this can be a very powerful learning tool for children and that is why they should be allowed to watch TV programmes both at home and school, but within the teacher's and parent's watch.
	To begin with, though I am no longer a student, I can still learn better by watching TV rather than reading books. Whenever I tune on to the History Channel, BBC or National Geographic Channel, I can learn new things. This is also true for the school going children. My younger brother, who is a college student with history major, heavily relies on History Channel documentaries to enhance his knowledge in history. TV programmes are the audio-visual presentation of an event, story or fact and thus have lasting impressions on our brain. If the right programmes are chosen for a child, he/she will learn faster by watching TV. For instance, one of our neighbours allow her 3 years old daughter to watch Rhymes on the internet TV channels and she can recite most of those rhymes. According to her mother, the girl has learned more effectively by watching those animated cartoons that have the rhymes than reading books. Since TV is a powerful learning tool, why not use it in a school for educational purpose?
	On the contrary, people who opine that TV programmes are a waste of valuable time has their own reasons. People cannot control the time they spend on watching TV. Moreover, many TV programmes are not suitable for the children and thus can have detrimental effects on their immature mind. They can mimic the bad habits of their favourite heroes and can become violent in many cases. However, this can only happen when we don't have control over our children's' activity. For instance, scientific research shows that a certain amount of chocolate is good for a child's health and cognitive development. However, if a child eats too much chocolate, he will surely suffer from many problems. In the same way, certain hours of TV watching can actually help students learn many things but uncontrolled TV watching habit would actually ruin his life.
	In conclusion, as parents and teachers, we must pick the suitable and educational programmes for our kids both in school and at home. My final opinion is that TV is a good pedagogical tool and hence its use in the school for both educational and recreational purposes should be allowed.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1644-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-594-some-countries-have-an-ever-increasing-population-who-are-aged-15-or-younger",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1643-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-593-old-generations-often-hold-some-traditional-ideas-on-the-correct-way-of-life",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1642-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-592-nowadays-we-are-living-in-a-throw-away-society",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1641-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-591-today-s-children-are-living-under-more-pressure",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1640-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-590-we-should-invent-a-new-language-for-international-communication",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1639-the-government-should-pay-for-the-course-fees-for-everyone",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1638-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-588-the-natural-resources-are-being-consumed-at-an-alarming-rate",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1637-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-587-public-museums-and-art-galleries-will-not-be-needed",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1636-many-developing-countries-are-currently-expanding-their-tourist-industries",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1635-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-585-team-activities-can-teach-more-skills-for-life",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1634-in-which-areas-are-computers-more-important",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1633-government-should-ensure-the-healthy-lifestyle-of-people",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1632-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-582-individuals-should-not-be-allowed-to-carry-guns",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1631-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-581-politicians-have-the-greatest-influence-on-the-world",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1630-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-580-some-people-think-investment-in-art-is-necessary",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1629-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-579-traditional-foods-are-being-replaced-by-international-fast-foods",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1628-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-578-multi-cultural-societies-bring-more-benefits-than-drawbacks-to-a-country",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1627-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-577-personal-happiness-is-directly-related-to-economic-success",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1626-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-576-medical-service-should-not-be-run-by-profit-making-companies",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1625-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-575-in-order-to-learn-a-language-well-we-should-also-learn-about-the-country",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1624-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-574-it-is-more-important-for-a-building-to-serve-a-purpose-than-to-look-beautiful",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1623-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-573-the-best-way-to-solve-the-world-s-environmental-problem-is-to-increase-the-price-of-fuel",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1622-international-tourism-has-become-a-huge-industry",
Essay 839:
	At present, international tourism is a huge industry and has touched even distant parts of the world. This trend has created some negative consequences and some people are worried that the problems are overwhelming which even outweigh the benefits this industry brings. I am however convinced that international tourism is definitely more beneficial in numerous ways which exceed the disadvantages it brings.
	To being with, international tourism creates transcendent benefits on different levels. First and foremost, it provides individuals opportunities to see a different culture first-hand. According to my observation, visiting another country is a comprehensive experience, which is much more enjoyable than staring at another culture on a computer screen. Additionally, international tourism boosts the economy of the host country. Take Macau as an example. International tourism has produced numerous employment opportunities, as high as 66%, in various sectors of this country. Thirdly, knowledge gained during overseas trips certainly helps eliminate a range of stereotypes tourists have about the host country. In this way, individuals can expand their outlook and become worldlier.
	Of course, non-biodegradable litter left behind by tourists poses a big threat to the host country. Nonetheless, tourist destinations can certainly establish relevant laws and regulations so that this issue can be addressed. Once the economy of the host country has been enhanced by international tourism, it would be easier for the local government to implement effective strategies to solve this problem.
	To conclude, even though international tourism may impede the environment of tourist destinations, the advantages of international tourism surely outweigh its disadvantages.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1621-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-570-far-too-little-has-been-done-to-prevent-animals-and-plants-from-dying-out",
Essay 840:
	Nowadays, plenty of flora and fauna are demised because of humans’ activities. Nations might be informed why these creatures’ safety are endangered for many decades, but the lack of enough information and a shortage of budget may be the leading reasons why this issue has not been addressed. I personally believe that governments should take responsibility more to solve it.
	To begin with, one important reason is that people are not appropriately notified via media. Clearly, the best source of information is news or some documentary programmes shown on television or the Internet; however, unfortunately, their coverage is not sufficient. In particular, billions of fishes died in Persian Gulf Sea during Iran-Iraq war from 1982 to 1989 due to oil spillage, while no organisation became responsible in giving enough data to people. Had citizens of Iran known more about it, more practical implementations would have applied by the related organisations or individuals. Therefore, to solve similar accidents, it is essential that the local media work more closely with the related sectors to inform viewers and find more phenomenal solutions to prohibit such devastating environmental disasters.
	Another factor is scarce of the needed funds for having better proactive strategies. Obviously, to raise the safety of wildlife, administrations must spend a remarkable amount of money to protect vegetations or animals. For example, the US government was better to escalate the funds needed for the protection of extinct mammals which were hunted by poachers during last three decades. As a result, international organisations should value more livestock and plants and push state authorities to spend more money on the protection of these creatures.
	In conclusion, although nations know about the extinction of live creatures, more actions are needed. From my perspective, each medium must expose more the consequences of this problem to the public than before, and international organisations must be more active to elevate the needed funds for expansion of this protection.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1620-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-570-teachers-should-be-responsible-for-teaching-students-to-judge",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1619-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-569-many-daily-necessities-are-produced-in-other-countries",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1618-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-568-increasing-business-and-cultural-contact-between-countries-brings-many-positive-effects",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1617-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-567-good-schools-and-medical-facilities-are-available-only-in-cities",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1616-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-566-modern-life-style-is-completely-different-from-the-way-people-lived",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1615-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-565-video-games-as-a-form-of-entertainment-or-even-educational",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1614-competition-helps-children-to-be-better-prepared-for-their-future",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1613-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-563-who-do-you-consider-to-the-best-teacher-in-our-life",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1612-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-562-men-can-also-be-as-good-as-women-in-upbringing-children",
Essay 841:
	We came in this world as an infant with a blank slate in our mind to be filled with various things as we grow older. We receive inputs from the society comprises of peoples such as our parents, siblings, relatives, playmates, friends and our teachers. But our first teachers is our parents and I think they are the best among all the teachers we come across in our life because they are the one we spent most of our time with and they have greater influence in our lives than anyone else.
	Learning starts as soon a child appears in his mother’s womb and as per a scientific study evidence was found that most of the neurone connection in human develops even before they come to the world. So undoubtedly parents are first and the most important teachers. They taught us how to eat, how to walk and to summarise how to behave like a human. For example, once I had seen a footage on Discovery channel wherein a four-year girl was found in the custody of dogs who have raised her ever since her parents left her. And a result of this is that she hardly speaks, she used to bark and walk on four legs instead to two. So this proves that what we see is what we learn. Hence parents play a pivotal role in our life acting as the very first tutor of behavioural science.
	Yes, there is no doubt that school teachers are the best gift you can get because they bestow you with all the knowledge and experience they have. But characters and personality are built at home and parents are the best teachers because they will always be there for you whenever you feel confused and guide you to the path which is best for you.
	(Approximately 270 words)
Essay 842:
	Parenting is an art which is mastered by a woman more than a man. A woman is more patient and understanding than a man and so I agree with the opinion that women make good parents than men but I completely disagree with the fact that, the responsibility lies more with the woman in taking care of a child.
	In my point of view men and woman share equal rights and responsibilities when it comes to parenting. Woman are better parents than men as they understand their children better than anybody else can because a child spends a major portion of his childhood with his mother and so the mother has a perception on his needs and requirements.
	Though it's a proven point that women make better parents than men the roles and responsibilities of a child are or should be equally shared by both men and woman. Men often mistakenly consider their responsibilities over their child.
	(Approximately 256 words)
Essay 843:
	Raising children in any society is influenced by their own value and culture. Restlessness traditional world viewer, think and see that the women are the dominant person in taking care of their children. However, in modern society, women and men as an equal to taking their part in raising up the children, as I mention too.
	Traditional people exhort the women to take primary responsibility for nursing and educating their children. Women take a crucial role in growing the kids to being an enough older. Meanwhile, the man pays more attentions on fulfilling goods for the family members. Men are one person with superior power in making decision and women is one person with powerless and followed that men decision. She can not involve in voted her voices on taking a decision, otherwise, she only focus on taking care and growing their children.
	Furthermore, modern people show that taking a car on their teeny people is older people want to. Both of men and women have the willingness to support the younger person to being a man and women. The men not only giving the authorities to the women as a single fighter to provide kids needed, but he actively involved on nursing their children.
	To sum up, take car and guardian the kids not only being as women responsibility, but men also involved actively in younger life development. From my point of view, both of them, men and women have equal responsibility for taking care of raising up their children. Men and women have the same position in making decision on their family in helping their kids to giant better life in the future.
	(Approximately 272 words)
Essay 844:
	Raising children is a complex task and it is so important to the human being that in some societies, it is considered as the primary responsibility of a family. It is scientifically proven that a child raised under the supervision of both parents is healthier both physically and psychologically. However, there are debates put up by some people opining that women are better at parenting than men. In my view, both parents have an equal role to play in providing care to children. This essay will elaborate both views in detail in few paragraphs below.
	To start with, it well established that children are emotionally more attached to a mother than a father. Women could sense problem their child is going through with just the sound of the call they make to call their mother. Many societies believe that certain feelings Mothers get are nothing but the sign by the God about the well-being of their child. For example, in China, if a mother dreams of her child playing in the mud with a pig, it is taken that Child is healthy and safe. Therefore, it is widely believed that mothers have got natural instinct of child care.
	However, various studies and research done by scientific fraternity have concluded that Children getting care from both parents turn out to be better human being. This is perhaps due to the fact that the child gets to see two different views on the same problem. Therefore, his/her thinking style broadens. A recent study done by the Psychological society of Mumbai says that children  who had single parents, irrespective of gender, were lagging behind in logical thinking skill compared to those who had both parents. Moreover, study further reveals these children were more prone to influence by bad elements like drugs, crime etc.
	Therefore, it can be fairly concluded that though women are good at child care, for all rounded development children need both parents.
	(Approximately 310 words)
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1611-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-561-people-can-prepare-foods-easily-and-in-less-time-nowadays",
Essay 845:
	In these modern days, preparing food has been quite simple, by the advancement of sophisticated cooking utensils and equipment, which in turn has changed the livelihood of people to a great extent. I believe that this change is easily understandable if we look at our daily agenda, as we contribute a lot of time for our profession and other recreational activities.
	When we think about being independent, we need to realise that managing time is the greatest challenge we need to face. We all have so many tasks per day, which we need to fit properly into our tight schedules and hence it is very significant that, we are required to minimise the time we need for each activity. Though I agree that, cooking food in a healthy manner is really it is worth to maintain a sound physique, it is very much achievable nowadays, by using equipment like microwave ovens, pressure cookers, induction stoves and high flame gas stoves. The world has become more and more competent, for people to live these days because we need to be more efficient in saving time in order to carry out our job responsibilities and hence the advancement in never cooking methods has a great  effect on it.
	Spending time together with family is also very important for the bond between individuals. Being said that, this process of recreation is, for most people; still a dream, as it needs leisure time. The time we could cut down on different daily activities can attribute to this, and cooking is surely one among those. On the other hand, as this trend continues to its maximum, we have been noticing people tend to quit the time for food preparation and instead they depend heavily on fast food restaurants. According to me, this modern day habit is something we need to cease due to its negative effect on our health.
	To conclude, I certainly think that, making cuisine is less difficult in this modern era, and it has definitely reduced people's effort and stress; although the increase in the number of restaurants day by day is a question which points towards us, as a real threat to generations coming up.
Essay 846:
	When the world is moving very fast with the new technologies,  new equipment has been introduced to make the life easier. This has been effect in food preparation process also. Hence food is one of the major need, people are willing to enjoy different flavours in easy manner time to time.
	As mentioned earlier, new equipment has been introduced and it will lead to saving time when preparing foods. Those days’ traditional methods took several hours to cook foods. Equipment like food processor can use to multiple tasks like blending, chopping, slicing and so on . Therefore preparing foods very easily is not a secret anymore. So the saved time can be used for many other extra activities like studying, entertaining, reading and so on.
	Secondly, instant foods have been widely spread among people, specially, university students and employees who are staying away from families. Instead of enjoying outside foods people are willing to prepare foods for them. By reading the given instructions, instant foods can be prepared even without knowing anything. Even though these foods are not much good for health, still it’s far better than restaurants or outdoor foods. So again live has changed and improved.
	Children are willing to enjoy a variety of foods. But modern mums are very busy with the fast running world. They don’t have time to try new foods by themselves. But the new lifestyle has been introduced different kinds of foods using the same old recipe with the new taste. Kids will enjoy these homemade foods as its special gift from their loving mums. Therefore interrelation between family members has been improved eventually.
	As a conclusion, my thought is while giving priority to healthy wealthy foods people have to prepare them. No matter how far foods have become easier to prepare, if it’s not good for our health ultimate result will not help to improve people's live.
Essay 847:
	The cooking has become much simple nowadays. Clearly, it is an art of creativity. I believe, it may be because of the changing food habits and technological advancement in the society.
	People adapts to the new changes very easily nowadays. In other words, it can be said as moving lifestyle. In these circumstances, people are in a busy working schedule and they cannot manage the old cooking system like smoky wooden stoves. Also, there is no space as well as time to spend on it. As a result of this people go behind the easy cooking recipes or instant food available in the market, even the children opt for burgers or pizza.
	Next, the technological advancement plays a major role in the kitchen. Traditional olden days kitchen are getting totally replaced by the modern kitchens and its equipment with all the facilities like mixer grinder, microwave oven, gas stoves etc. With the use of those, preparation of foods is becoming easier and also time saving.
	In the future, as a result of new innovations, cooking robots may be introduced to lessen the work more than we think. Definitely, the technological innovation and improvement have made the process of cooking and preparing food easier and that has positively impacted people’s lives. More women now work outside and they can prepare foods after getting back from office. People can spend more time with family members and friends because the cooking needs less time than it used to take. The ready food, improved tools for cooking, easy access to recipes are all beneficial for people as they allow us to spend less time cooking.  
	In short, this gives so many benefits, at the same time we should look into our health also for the ill effects.
Essay 848:
	The art of food preparation is perhaps the oldest among all forms of arts and it is still evolving. It has changed a lot since the establishment of human civilisation. And perhaps the biggest change has occurred in modern time. Opinion is divided about the impact of this change on our life, while some say it has made our life easier, others feel that society has lost traditional foods and skills. I feel that modern way of preparing food has positive impacts on human life.
	Firstly, in today's time, time is considered a precious commodity. Taking clues from this concept, the cooking method has also changed. Nowadays supermarkets have larger sections of processed and precooked food than the fresh produce. This is because our generation finds that processed foods are time savers. One does not need cut, mix and cook from scratch. People think the saved time can be used in more productive and useful way such as spending more time with family on the dining table while enjoying food than on preparing the food itself. Therefore, with the availability of modern ingredients cooking has become easier and quicker.
	On the other hand, recipes are becoming simpler day by day, as no one wants to spend much time in the kitchen. Because of this traditional recipes and methods are getting forgotten. For example, nowadays, rarely anybody prepares 'Pua', a traditional Indian sweet, because of its complex a time-consuming cooking process. Some people also believe that because of readymade ingredients, the originality of taste is lost. Argument is that one would not find the cake prepared from instant-mix as tasty as those prepared by grandmothers at home.
	In nutshell, we can fairly conclude that modern way of food preparation is becoming popular day by day because of its simplicity and time saving nature, which in turn has positive impact on our life.
Essay 849:
	Since the dawn of time, all things developed into more reliable and easier to do fashion including food preparation. For the past years, foods have evolved for us to be conveniently cooked and prepared. It is agreed that foods in easy preparation has improved how every people live. Technological advancement has made the process of food preparation easier. This argument will be proven by looking at how it makes us healthier and connected to our family.
	For one, easy food preparation saves time and helps improving our health. For example, Lucky Me and Maggie noodles have a calculated amount of essential elements (e.g. Iron, Calcium and Zinc) and vitamins (e.g. Niacin, Riboflavin and fat-soluble vitamins) that are daily required for our bodies. This makes it clear that these noodles give us the energy and strength we need to do our everyday work. As this shows that modern foods enable us to have a healthy living.
	In addition to this, this change makes us more connected to our family. An instance illustrating this in action is that Lucky Me and Maggie noodles require just three minutes to be cooked. Thus, we will be having more time to have fun and help our children's assignments which certainly make them happy. It is obvious from this that it give us a contented living with our loved ones.
	The advance cooking devices and kitchen appliance and packet foods are the two blessing for making the cooking process easier. There are many fast food shops that offer instance foods and we nowadays need to spend fewer times on kitchen to prepare and serve foods. This easy process of food preparation is a blessing for us. We already live in an era of tremendous work pressure and the easy food preparation saves a great deal of time for us.
	In conclusion, easy-prepared foods make us healthier and allow us to have quality time with our family. It has been proven that this change gives improvement to the way people live. Thus, buying easy-cooked foods are highly recommended.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1610-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-560-there-are-various-reasons-for-attending-colleges-and-universities",
Essay 850:
	After completing basic school level education, most of the people aspire for colleges/universities for further education. Although everyone seems to have different motive to join colleges but the most tempting one seems to be getting a hefty pay package after leaving the college. But there can be other reasons as well like to interact with people or to deep dive into a subject.
	Let’s start with the reason why most people argue to get good marks in your 12th standard. In my city, there are a plethora of colleges but you need to burn the night oil to get into one of the top colleges in north campus. These colleges are not only having a legacy to deliver gold standard students but they also ensure that their students get a job in hand even before finishing their course through campus placements. So students join these colleges to ensure a financially secure future.
	But there are others as well for whom these colleges serve deeper insight about a subject they are keen to know about. These colleges offer specialisation in the field of science, commerce and arts which were not there during the school time. Apart from this, college/university offers a completely new experience to all students in terms of interaction with different peoples. College time perceived to be the best part of someone life. Here you meet people who play very important role in your life, for instance, your teachers, friends, role models etc. College life certainly helps a person to transform his life and choose the path in his life he wants to continue.
	The reason why I joined a college is quite different from the one discussed above. Even before joining I got myself enrolled for some professional course where a well-defined career is a certainty. So my reason is only to get a graduate degree which could have helped me sometime in future.
Essay 851:
	Formal education is a well-established method of learning and has been developed to highly mature form with the development of human civilisation. People attend colleges and universities not only to gain a degree or certificate but to attain various other goals. This essay will elaborate few of these reasons in below paragraphs.
	Firstly, learning and opportunity for employment are two most popular reasons why anyone goes to university. Deep knowledge on a subject makes a student more employable and suitable for the job. On top of this, colleges also provide venues for placements in their campus itself. For example, 90% of engineering students in India find their job in the recruitment events organised by companies in the college campus during the final semester of the students. Hence, students get doubly benefited by attending universities.
	Secondly, some people have an interest in research on topics relating to various aspects effecting human. So they opt for higher education in universities which are well placed with access to government funds allocated to research and inventions. Institutions like ‘Indian Institute of Science’ enroll hundreds of students in the doctorate programs each year and receive thousands of applications for the same. This shows that there is a great deal of interest in research among students these days.
	Other most vital reason for people attending universities is that one gets to meet with people of similar interests and a place where he gets newer ideas. There are many examples of entrepreneurs founding big organisations with partners they met in universities and based on innovation ideas which were seeded during their college days.
	As we see from above, every student has a unique reason to attend university or college. But the most popular reason why anyone joins college is to gain knowledge
Essay 852:
	Most of the people perceive that a tertiary level of education is important. So they attend colleges and universities for certain reasons. It is because enrolling to these institutions will later give them a better and convenient life as well as to make them academically knowledgeable that subsequently use in their future circumstances as will now be analysed.
	Firstly, one reason behind why people continue to pursue their education at universities is that this will give them a comfortable life. For instance, I finished my bachelor’s degree in nursing at the University of Baguio in Baguio city, Philippines. Then successfully passed my national exam and has worked in one of the best hospitals in Melbourne, Australia, the Royal Melbourne Hospital. I have had a good paying job and nursing career that made me provide not only my basic needs but also the physiological needs of my family. In fact, I was able to buy my family a Ferrari van that makes their transportation easy and convenient. So this is one of the good reasons why people want to finish the college or university education.
	Another reason people go to colleges is they want to become academically knowledgeable that would later be used in their future encounters. For example, while studying nursing at my university, I become a critically-minded individual because I learned to reason out soundly and have made better decisions in my life. I also have known the scientific method of problem-solving which I always use whenever I face inevitable conflicts. Thus, this purpose can be seen also a reason for people to go to colleges and universities.
	In conclusion, to have a better and convenient life with own family in the future, and to become academically knowledgeable that would be later used in their future circumstances are two of the many purposes that people think why they go to colleges and universities. There are many different reasons why they do this. So I think that it is always been a good idea to continue and pursue a higher education, so go and enroll to universities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1609-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-559-many-people-use-mobile-phones-and-the-internet-to-communication-with-others",
Essay 853:
	There have been many changes in the way people communicate over the last 20 years. It is understandable that these changes have affected people’s relationship and many new forms of words, abbreviations, grammatical rules and way of writing have emerged, whether this is a good thing or a bad thing should be justified.  
	In the past, people used to communicate by writing letters and speaking on the phone. However, technology has changed this, and now emails texts and the internet are the most common communication tools, especially for young people. These methods of technology are much faster than the old ones and these means that people write more quickly and communicate more frequently. Unfortunately, the speed of modern communication system has reduced the accuracy of our messages. This is because people make up their own words and abbreviations and some of these can become quite popular. In my hometown, for example, LOL means’ laugh out loud: and children write this and say it. What is more, punctuation may be missing, and people worry less about how they spell words. Yet language change is not necessarily a bad thing. Informal texts and emails are just messages between friends. It does not matter too much how they are written. The important thing is that people can switch to more accurate language when they need. However, if they lose this ability and formal communication becomes too careless, then there will be problems.
	All in all, I do not think you can stop changing, and you cannot prevent new ways of communicating. On the other hand, it is still necessary to make sure that everyone can appreciate and should have an interest in the past because it has made us what we are now.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1608-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-558-where-to-live-small-town-vs-big-city",
Essay 854:
	Nowadays, many young people want to live in a big city. They think living in big cities will give them big opportunities to get a better education and job. However, some other people like to live in a small town that is less crowded than big cities.
	On the one hand, living in a big city is not a bad idea. In big cities, there are a number of popular schools which has not only good teachers but also good facilities to educate young generation. Furthermore, when children grow up and want to find a job, they have a better chance to get a job they want. For example, if there are two people looking for a job in a company, the employee will consider the one who graduated from a popular school in a big city rather than the other one who graduated from an ordinary school in a small town.
	On the other hand, big cities are very crowded and more crimes occur in big cities. In addition, small towns are less polluted than big cities, so people can enjoy the beautiful scenery and the fresh air there. If the children want to get a degree or a job in cities, they can study or work there while living in a small town. For instance, if I want to work in a big city, I can work there on weekdays and enjoy my weekend at my home in a small town.
	To sum up, in my opinion living in a small town is better than living in a big city. Even though big cities are better in some aspects, small towns still are the best place to live for me.
Essay 855:
	Considering where to live is one crucial thing which everybody has to do before occupying any places. Regarding this, the choices between these two may be different. Personally, living in a small town would be more interesting than in a big city. However, both have advantages and drawbacks.
	According to a significant expanding in human population and the rapid development of the world in every sector which are causing a noticeable increase in human demands, people tend to live in a big city in order to help them in accessing all the things that they need including education, job facility, business opportunity, networks, or other stuff. As a result, the overwhelming majority of societies are living in the city which is again causing really crowded population in the city. Moreover, an enormous number of vehicles are inevitably increasing the risk of getting accidents and also pollutants such as carbon-dioxide that can contribute to global warming. This air pollution will be really annoying for people. Furthermore, the availability of various things such as money and other goods and the huge number of residence can open more opportunities for criminals.
	In contrast, preferring to live in a small town would be more beneficial. Firstly, a limited number of population and more natural places with plenty of trees can ease us to relax and of course, the level of pollutants is not as high as it is in the big cities. Secondly, the risk of getting travel accidents is lower as the number of vehicles is fewer.  Thirdly, a chance to get closer and socialise with other people is more in the small town.
	However, regarding the accessibility to the education, important goods, shops, and so forth, moving or balancing the population in cities and small towns can tackle this problem. Nonetheless, people in small towns can purchase any goods from cities and also they can go for better education to the cities.
	In summary, although some drawbacks may occur when living in a small town, its advantages outweigh the negative impacts. Therefore, in order to get a better and more relaxing life, I do believe that living in a small town is a key for it.
Essay 856:
	Considering where to live is one crucial thing which everybody has to do before occupying any places. Regarding this, the choices between one another may be different. Personally, living in a small town would be more interesting than in a big city. However, both have advantages and drawbacks.
	According to a significant expand in human population and the rapid development of the world in every sector which are causing a noticeable increase in human demands, people tend to live in a big city in order to help them in accessing all the things that they need including education, networks, or other stuff. As a result, the overwhelming majority of societies are living in the city which is again causing really crowded population in the city. Moreover, an enormous number of vehicles are inevitably increasing the risk of getting accidents and also pollutants such as carbon-dioxide that can contribute to global warming. This air pollution will be really annoying for people.
	Furthermore, the availability of various things such as money and other goods and the huge number of residence can open more opportunities for criminals.
	In contrast, preferring to live in a small town would be more beneficial. Firstly, a limited number of population and more natural places with plenty of trees can ease us to relax and of course, the level of pollutants is not as high as it is in the big cities. Secondly, the risk of getting travel accidents is lower as the number of vehicles is smaller.  Thirdly, a chance to get closer and socialise with other people is more in the small town.
	However, regarding the accessibility to the education, important goods, shops, and so forth, moving or balancing the population in cities and small towns can tackle this problem. Nonetheless, people in small towns can purchase any goods from cities and also they can go for better education to the cities.
	In summary, although some drawbacks may occur when living in a small town, its advantages outweigh the negative impacts. Therefore, in order to get a better and more relaxing life, I do believe that living in a small town is a key for it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1607-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-557-many-people-follow-fashion-trends-and-think-that-it-is-very-important",
Essay 857:
	Perhaps no subject in the world causes as much controversy as fashion does. As human march on the new millennium, there has been a significant growth to pursue fashion. Although it seems to be extremely vital, I firmly side with negative effects of the following fashion.
	The first point to note is that without a doubt, trendy products can broaden our knowledge about innovative breakthrough such as novel home appliances or latest cars to facilitate people's lifestyle but, the reality is the opposite. These products are contributed to showing people's status. As we are living in a competitive world, rivalry among families is on the rise and in this way families are willing to illustrate they are wealthy and up to date. Thus, that is why they have an inclination to the emphasis on fashion.
	Another justification to indicate downsides of being trendy is entirely wasting time and money. It should be considered that fashions are only available for a short time of a year and they will fade forever. So, spending a great amount of budget on them is completely unrealistic. Meanwhile, recently, youngsters are more likely to be fashion persuasive which might be due to peer pressure. They are not mature enough to think if these new things are lucrative or not.
	In addition, owing to the widespread of advertisement, people are easily cajoled by them and they are encouraged to follow the latest fashion. Therefore, the role of advertisements to create fashion as an essential part of life should be taken into consideration.
	As suggested above, it can conclude that benefits of being fashionable never overshadow pitfalls.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1606-government-investment-in-arts-is-waste-of-money",
Essay 858:
	It is often argued that the government should finance public services instead of spending its budget on arts, music and theatre. Although I agree that the government’s investments in public services play a very important role, I think that proper funding for the arts sector is also crucial for society.
	On the one hand, the government should definitely allocate a large part of its budget to public services. This economic sector determines the overall quality of life, ensuring that some basic services, like schools, hospitals and roads, are available to all citizens irrespective of their income or social status. Public services satisfy the primary needs of the society and thus need proper funding, while artists and musicians are not curing diseases or building houses, so their role is secondary. For example, any country can live without music concerts, but the absence of medicine will create significant problems. That is why the government should adequately finance public services in the first place.
	On the other hand, arts, music and theatre are not a waste of money, since they are an integral part of society’s cultural and intellectual development and amusement. Firstly, art and music draw people’s attention to diverse phenomena and represent the inward significance of things. Quite often a single drawing, piece or song can exhort myriads of people to reconsider their attitude towards some situations. This way, art serves as a major source of a nation’s personal and intellectual development. Moreover, visiting museums, watching movies and listening to music are common ways of relaxation and entertainment. Thus, the art sector is also important to society and should not be neglected.
	To conclude, though I agree that the government should allocate a large part of its budget to such urgent needs of the society like public services, I think that arts, music and theatre should also be financed since they play an important role in people’s development and entertainment.
Essay 859:
	In some countries, the higher tax incomes come from arts such as movie industry, music or theatre business. In this regard, arts are beneficial investments for the government. On the other hand, arts, such as music are the food for soul and government should patronise this sector.  
	Moreover, in big countries like America and United kingdom arts are one of the biggest earning sources for those countries. The fact that, many people want to come to these countries because their arts are famous and the best in the world. Due to the fact movie industries, music or theatre has been encouraged the government for tax. Indeed, it can help the government to invest some money to public services as well. Hence, those countries are famous for music and movies and its imposing in the world and have become destiny for many people around the world for gaining their passion in arts.
	Undoubtedly, in the United States of America, we can see that musician, an actor or an actress have higher incomes but they should taxable for the government that is  a policy not only in this country but also in some countries that have good arts too. For this reason to develop some areas, for instance, healthcare, public transportation, etc. The government should encourage the artists and arts. Clearly, to give excellent service for American civil society, arts should not be ignored. Furthermore, taxpayers awareness among arts industries are higher and which is rapidly changing the economic growth of America.
	Arts are the important media to give profits for the USA whereas in the UK too. Arts represent the identity, uniqueness, heritage and reflection of a nation.  In brief, investing in arts is by means a waste of money, rather it is a good investment both for economic growth and cultural enrichment.
Essay 860:
	The government spending on arts has long been a contentious issue. Many counter the idea of government incurring expenses to promote arts. However, I feel governments should continue to spend money on arts. This will be argued by analysing how arts can contribute to a country’s economy as well as serve as a platform to achieve one’s goals.
	To begin, arts such as music and theatre are steady sources of income for a country. A case in point would be New Zealand, where the government supports new artists by lending them money to kick-start their careers, which in turn enables the state to collect taxes on the revenue earned by these artists. This stream of income would be lost if there’s no spending to foster local artists. Hence it is clear that arts are vital for a country’s economic health rather than being a liability to it.
	In addition, having a decent infrastructure for creative industries would mean realisation of dreams of millions who wish to be artists. For instance, in the UK, a person could choose to adopt arts as a career path, enabling him or her to earn a fair livelihood, rather than having to reluctantly pick a profession that he or she does not feel passionate about. A state where the government doesn’t invest in arts would most likely prevent people to go after what they long for, resulting in frustration on the part of people. Therefore arts play an important part in contentedness of the individuals of a nation.
	In summary, the government should continue to devote resources to arts since its significance in a country’s tax system and bringing happiness to people should not be underestimated. Henceforth, government’s funding of arts is not a waste of a country’s resources.
Essay 861:
	Some people are convinced that the financial reserve of the government should be allocated to the public sector rather than on arts. However, I strongly believe that arts play a major role in the development of a country.
	Primarily, arts symbolise the culture of a nation. In the primitive era, people celebrated their occasion through music and dance. These cultural activities have become a religious ritual for them, thereby representing an aboriginal tradition. It is in the style of an art such as designs of garments and historic rock sculptures that determine the ethnicity of a group. For example, in the Philippines, the Ifugao tribe in Bulacan is well known for wearing a bahag attire, which looks like an old an old-fangled brief. Their cultural identity becomes famous because of their artistic rice terraces.
	Furthermore, arts have become the freedom of expression. Some arts enthusiast can demonstrate their feelings through music or paintings. Such activities have a reasonable means of portraying emotions. One example of this is expressing depression through a composition of a melancholic song rather than to venture in a destructive behaviour such as inebriation of alcohol. Thus, art is a good passion that entices the people to do recreational activities.
	Finally, it is widely believed that some artistic outputs have contributed to the tourism of a country. There are holidaymakers who visit a country so they can witness a painting, sculptures or any artistic masterpiece. To illustrate, the painting of Juan Luna “ the Spolarium “ in the Philippines has lured a considerable number of foreign visitors. This is because the painting depicts the suffering of most Filipinos at the time of Spaniard regime, which becomes a historical event in the country.
	To conclude, I am convinced that arts have a greater contribution to the society. Not only does it represent the cultural heritage of a country, but it also encourages performing a formidable masterpiece that can promote the culture of a country.
Essay 862:
	The art, music and theatre constitute an integral part of the culture of any country. The government often found supporting these by arranging a requisite amount of funds but for some spending on these activities should ideally be utilised for the welfare of the country’s people as it otherwise does not serve any good purpose. I think there is nothing wrong in supporting arts of a country and government is the ideal body who should do this.
	With globalisation, often the culture of developing countries transforms to adopt the traits of developed countries. For example traditional street plays in India are things of past and people are more inclined toward watching movies, a culture from the western countries. This poses a threat to the existence of an intrinsic regional culture of a country which actually defines the spirit and uniqueness of the country. So it is the responsibility of the government to support traditional art, music and theatre which tends to carry the cultural heritage of a country.
	Every year a lot is spent by the government to promote regional art, music and theatre and this is something which people suggest is a waste of money. Prima facie it is correct, but on the other hand, it helps promote these features of a country which help the government to attract more and more tourists from other country and it also acts as the livelihood of the people who are solely dependent on these skills. For instance, nation foreign exchange has risen 20%, since the last five years, thanks to the increasing promotion by the government.
	To summarise, it may involve a huge cost for a nation to support art, music and theatre but it should be seen as an investment for supporting the unique heritage of the country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1605-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-555-terrorism-in-pakistan-causes-and-solutions",
Essay 863:
	Terrorism is now a worldwide phenomenon. It has spread its ugly tentacles over many countries – Pakistan is one of them. It seems like the entire mankind is living under the shadow of fear.
	At present, it’s the gravest problem faced by Pakistan. It shows its ugly head in face of kidnapping, assassination of prominent personalities, bomb blasts, target killing and indiscriminate shooting down of innocent people.
	The root causes of escalated terrorism are numerous – illiteracy, poverty, unemployment, wrong interpretations of Islamic concepts like Jihad, and huge inequality and disparity among the society. There are some other sources which state that it’s a repercussion of proxy war in Afghanistan, or it’s supported and funded by foreign agencies to destabilise Pakistan, in order to capture its nukes. Pakistan is a heterogeneous society where sectarianism, religious fanaticism, and intolerance are some other root causes.
	Terrorist’s attitude shows that they do not believe in negotiations. So it’s important to tackle them with iron hands because terrorism is destroying our society at every level whether it’s political, social, economic, or psychological. It does not only obstruct economic development but now people are even intimidated into leaving their homes. Overall, society is bearing a high level of fear, stress and insecurity.
	It’s difficult to hunt them down as they keep changing their hideouts. But if we want to combat terrorism the government must try to bridge the gulf of disparity among all provinces, promote education and employment and built infrastructure. The government also needs to clearly state its policies to deal with terrorists and anti-terrorism squads and agencies along with society must work together to eradicate this menace. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1604-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-554-these-days-people-work-in-more-than-one-job",
Essay 864:
	Nowadays, in many cases, people have to make lots of decisions regarding their career. Some people prefer to work in many places and gain life experiences while others argue that this is not always optimal. Is it really beneficial to be involved in many occupations or is it better to follow your dream path having only the favourite job? In this essay, both advantages and disadvantages of having many jobs will be reviewed and the author's opinion provided.
	Another major positive aspect is that people are able to focus on their main job and additionally do something else after their work which might be more interesting. In my experience, I used to work as a software developer for an enterprise and read lectures at a university. It was beneficial due to fact that I earned enough money and it was exciting to share my knowledge with students.
	On the other hand, there are some disadvantages too - one of them being the inability to concentrate on your career goals. For instance, it can be pretty difficult to devote yourself to the work that is the most important to you because either you may not prioritise your jobs or you lack time. Therefore, noteworthy is the fact that it becomes much harder to acquire the required experience.
	Another significant drawback of having many jobs is that the life-work balance deteriorates. For example, for many, people feel inferior if they lack qualification in their new occupation. It is quite a frequent situation as it is tough to gain a wide variety of work experience.
	In conclusion, the pros and cons of having and switching many jobs were described. In my view, the disadvantages outweigh disadvantages and it is suggested that people should work in many places only if they need money or only temporarily due to other causes.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1602-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-553-nearly-every-new-building-is-designed-by-an-architect-nowadays",
Essay 865:
	Over the years, buildings of various types have undergone major changes. With the advancement of the technology, the architectural world has reached a level where it has almost no boundaries. What seemed to be near impossible in the past is now a simple task for architectures with the use of advanced technologies. During earlier days only large buildings were designed by architects but in recent times it's a commonly seen trend that professionally trained architects being used for almost every building construction that undertaken.
	With a fast paced economy and development of human conditions, people are now very sound financially. And as they grow bigger so is their demands and expectations which grow wider. People nowadays construct buildings of the highest order, not only the one that suits their needs and requirements but also the one which is of the utmost beauty and luxury. And this asks for a different level of expertise and that's where the role of an architect comes in.
	In my opinion, buildings constructed these days are all done by highly qualified architects and this is the reason behind the hike in the number of architects. Educational institutions also start focusing on this profession and aim at making the best architectural students.
	On the whole, people and companies demand a lot from architects these days and the growing pressure to build the best is proving to be a challenging task to most architects. With technological advancements in the future, buildings will be designed by machines and the architectural world will break furthermore boundaries and challenges.
Essay 866:
	With growing advancement and technologies, the architectural field has also been escalated nowadays. People are becoming much more advanced and want perfection and luxury. Today, many people get their houses designed by an architect. To some people, this seems needless, while others consider it the important thing for constructing a building. In my opinion, construction should involve a person with expertise to get the best result out of it. Several reasons for this are explained further.
	Initially, buildings and houses were made of wood, bamboo sticks and stone to serve the purpose of just providing shelter. Whereas today apart from providing just a roof over our heads, it has many other purposes to serve. Firstly, safety and security are two important reasons to live in a house. Therefore, people today hire an expert to design a house that is safe and sound. High-quality materials are being used to make it durable and long lasting. Secondly, as the population is growing rapidly, there is a need of space for the people to live. A structure designed by an architect can help solving the problem. Buildings using less land can be made to accommodate more people and saving a lot of space. For example, in Japan, people are working on a project to build underground complexes so that less land is consumed and is eco-friendly as well.
	Finally, today different shapes and styles of buildings have become a symbol of status and luxury.
	To conclude, I believe that without an expertise help all the above-mentioned factors could not be achieved.  Therefore, wise and conservative type of buildings can solely be designed by an architect.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1601-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-552-these-days-more-fathers-stay-at-home-and-take-care-of-their-children",
Essay 867:
	The traditional belief that men are breadwinners while women should take care of chores and up bring children is no longer true in the modern era. In many places, this convention has gone to a reverse way and an increasing number of women work outside and men stay at home. There are several reasons for this and I personally think that it is a positive trend.
	With the changes in social belief, more parents send their daughters for higher studies instead of preparing them for getting married and this enhances the capable and educated women workforce. In many fields, for example, telemarketing, teaching, fashion design, and banking, women are doing better than men and this has created a demand for female employees in the job market. The equal right movement has had a great impact on empowering women and this has become quite normal for mothers to work at offices while the fathers decide to stay at home to take care of their children. This decision is often based on mutual understanding of the couples and the one who has the higher earning potential decides to work to support the increasing expenses of the family. This has been socially accepted in most of the developed countries though some developing countries in Asia are yet to completely accept this trend.
	In my opinion, this trend has more positive outcomes and should be treated as a progress. If both genders do not work for hand in hand and do not get the equal opportunity, the real progress would be impossible. This ensures that we live in an era when both men and women have an equal opportunity and someone is not deprived of a great career or a big opportunity only because of her gender. It is a great chance that allows the parents to decide who to earn money for the family and who to take care of the family, not based on social and traditional belief.
	In conclusion, the changing roles in a family have been possible due to the great changes in social belief, advancement of women, especially in education and this is a very positive trend that eliminates the gender discrimination and advocates the equal rights.
Essay 868:
	With the socio-economic development, breadwinner fathers and stay-at-home mothers are on a decline. There are many causes behind this trend and in my opinion, this is could be considered as a positive change rather than negative.
	It is undeniable that the global economy is going down. Many men workers have been sacked, and as a consequence, they stay at home, do household chores and take care of children. At the same time, women are more encouraged to work, by the government policies such as maternity leave, high salaries, and shortened the working hours. Another reason why husband role has been changed in recent years is the acceptance of the society for them to become nannies instead of going to work and support the family.
	Personally, I think this change in father’s and mother’s traditional role could have many benefits. Firstly, in many cases mothers have a better qualification and job opportunities than their partners, then it seems more sensible them going out to work. Secondly, if fathers stay at home and look after children, it would become an important contribution in their children's upbringing, which could play a vital role in children’s future when they become teenagers and face problems that would be hard for mothers to handle. For example, it is rare to find boys or girls who have a close relationship with their fathers and making troubles or unsuccessful in their lives.
	In conclusion, there are different reasons why fathers are becoming more responsible for taking care of children while mothers are busy with the financial support of the family. And I believe this could be useful for the whole family. 
Essay 869:
	It has been seen for decades that male has always been a dominating figure in the society.  Today's world offers equal opportunities to both men and women. Therefore, it is common to see nowadays that more fathers are staying at home and raising children while mothers have become the bread earners. Whatever may be the reasons, I am completely against this trend and to me, it brings more of negativity than positivity.
	To start with, one of the causes could be that females today are equally educated and demanding as males. Females have the potential to be independent and walk along with the men in every field. Companies today, seek to hire more females for jobs that are less physically demanding, thereby leaving fewer options for men. Secondly, in some Middle Eastern countries like UAE and Qatar, females are preferred over males, because these countries look for woman empowerment. Finally, in cases where wife holds a higher qualification, she, with mutual understanding and discussion with the husband works so that they can earn more and have a better life.
	However, according to me, this brings negative development to the society. Children in their growing age need more love and care, which they can get from by mothers. Females have that natural instinct to provide comfort and care. Fathers, how much ever they try, cannot put the values that a mother can incorporate into a child. Hence, this affects the upbringing of children. Furthermore, fathers cannot cope up with both household tasks and look after the kids. On the other hand, females are said to be multitaskers.
	To summarise, I do not want to say that females should not work at all, but of course, not at the cost of nurturing their children. There are women who do part time jobs and look after the family as well. Nevertheless, in my view, this trend should not be continued as it has more drawbacks and brings negativity.
Essay 870:
	In modern times the traditional gender roles are changing rapidly, resulting in more fathers staying at home looking after their offspring and mothers becoming the main breadwinners in the family. There are numerous causes for this and I think it’s a step in the right direction.
	In the past few decades, there have been numerous women’s movements, as a result of which conventional gender roles have gone through a paradigm shift. Although this equality was only acquired after long hard battles fought by women’s right groups against the misogynist practices that existed a few decades ago. Furthermore, in past few decades, we also had a fair share of men’s movements whose main aim was to make men get in touch with their feminine side rather than feel ashamed and disgusted with it.
	Nonetheless in many parts of the world and in fact in the minds of many people across the globe, such a family system is considered to be an insult to a man’s masculinity but I beg to differ with this school of thought. In my view, it is a blessing to be living in a time in history where both males and females can choose to take on whatever role they decree. And since it has been proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that women can do most jobs just as good, if not better than their male counterparts there’s nothing wrong with mothers taking on roles that are traditionally thought to be men-oriented.
	All in all, due to successful women’s and men’s movements deep into the last millennia, genders roles are getting swapped and I am of strong opinion that these changes are a blessing.
Essay 871:
	These days more fathers stay at home and take care of their children while mothers go out to work. What could be the reasons for this? Do you think it is a positive or a negative development?
	Nowadays it is common in many families where mothers are breadwinners for the family, while their role is played by the father of upbringing children. A number of factors have led to this situation, I regard it as a positive trend.
	On the one hand, in today's society, parents have had to adapt to several changes. Firstly, owing to the advancement of equal rights movements, 21st century's ladies have greater access to educational and professional opportunities which in turn create a situation where women can lead to gain qualifications and pursue a career. Secondly, On the basis of their personalities, to certain kinds of professions such as human resource management, nursing and teaching which are primarily driven by women. For example, in a hospital, more female nurses are recruited due to the fact women tend to more patience and caring to look after patients. Finally, the rising of living which means both marriage partners need to have a job to support the family, therefore, it may depend on the personal preference of each partner, who will take the role of breadwinner and who will take on the role of upbringing children, or based on which partner earns the most money.
	On the other hand, in my opinion, this trend could create a profound influence not only in the societies but among the families as well. Having househusband, men can realise the arduous job of his wife that make him more respectable toward her. In addition, it could make harmony and understand between spouses which positively effects on the children as well. Last but not least, there is always a chance to get back to the traditional professions of men and women if they feel bored as seeking a change.
	In conclusion, the changing of gender roles are beneficial to the family as well as society and this trend is greatly acceptable.
Essay 872:
	It is clear that the role of mothers to maintain their children has been replaced by fathers in many areas. There are plenty of reasons why this can be and I am pretty sure that it is a good evolution.
	For me, mother’s choice to leave her baby to her husband can happen due to various reasons. Firstly, the man might have wider knowledge about how to maintain the baby correctly and effectively than his life partner has. Hence, it is likely to be a wise idea if he obtains the full responsibility to take care of their children. Furthermore, the agreement created before entering marriage life also can be a cause. My sister as an example, before she and her future husband decided to get marriage, they made an appointment that the husband will look after their children as my sister earned much more money than he did. Looking at this example, it seems that economy factor indirectly is one of the reasons. The traditionally settled marriage is declining while people are choosing their life partners. This lead to a phenomenon that women are no longer bound to take care of their children and do household works. If they have better potentials, they do the office jobs or run a business and that leaves the father to stay at home.
	In my opinion, it is a positive evolution if the female works and the male stay at home to maintain their children. This is mainly because it is likely to be a distinct proof showing that the position of both genders is same. In addition, it can destroy a traditional assumption revealing that the husband who should earn money for the family and the wife should be a full-time housewife. This issue also reveals that the each couple seemly has different rules in order to create their finest family.
	In a nutshell, the knowledge and arrangement might be the factors why mothers leave their kids to the father and it seems to me that it is a good trend.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1600-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-551-nowadays-more-people-are-living-by-themselves",
Essay 873:
	The lifestyle of people represents the cultural and traditional norms of a society. The way we socialise, eat, live and behave becomes the trend which is followed by other members of a society. These footprints sometimes result in the destruction of moral values of a community. Recently, it is observed that the number of people preferring to live independently is gradually rising which is alarming as this will have a negative impact on society. This essay will analyse reasons for this and its impact on the society.
	Family relations and moral values are the foundations of a reputable society. People opt to live independently because they want to live and lead a free life away from the family restrictions, regulations and norms. They say that their physiology doesn't match with other members of a family and living with them is a mental torture. For instance, children in Asian countries enjoy less freedom than that of West; once they grow up they develop the desire to live alone and autonomous life. Not all of it is associated with the family environment, few people working abroad prefers to live alone or with friends. They believe that this way they can save more and send the same to their families back home. For instance, in UAE, private accommodation cost is more than the average salary of a worker.
	Living alone not only affects the person in general but its effects on society are adverse. People living alone suffer from homesickness, they do not want to share their feelings and emotions with others which might result in mental disorders or damage their personality. Their families suffer back home when they need them physically in case of events, gathering or medical emergencies. Children preferring to live alone or with friends are unable to learn the moral lessons or acquire virtuous deeds preached by their parents or guardians. These values are the pillars of a society. Moreover, they don't share the responsibility of the parents, siblings or take part in household stuff which throws the burden on other members of a family.
	To recapitulate, the aforementioned provides plausible arguments that highlighted myriad reasons of living independently and its impact on society. People opting to live private and self-governing life often trade their happiness and comfort with the emotions and feelings associated with the combined family system.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1599-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-550-life-is-now-better-that-it-was-100-years-ago",
Essay 874:
	It is certainly true that there has been a huge change that took place in our ways of living with the time and it is now more developed and convenient than the past. Although I agree with the given statement but I do not agree completely. In my point of view, both of times have their own significances and people are similarly enjoyed and suffered in both eras.
	First of all, regarding the past, a century ago people probably had a peaceful life. At that time, the proportion of crimes was significantly low. For example, folks usually lived in their community despite having any fear of burglary, stealing, kidnaping or terrorist attacks, which are the most common incidences at present. Secondly, a century ago, there was no problem of traffic congestions, as there were very negligible numbers of four wheelers running on British roads. Moreover, during that time family bonds were very strong. Such as, there was almost zero incidence of family breakdown while nowadays it is remarked as one kind of tradition.
	In the present time, there is an improved lifestyle and this mostly enjoyed by the city people. This is due to the advent of modern technology. For instance, the internet brings people together and makes their work faster where within a millisecond people can send their message to people of another part of the world. To add with, health facilities have developed in such a way that, death ratio is remarkably low in developed countries because saving the life has now become very easy.
	To conclude, I believe that, both of the eras bear its importance. In one hand, people are living in a high-tech era, where every single comfort is now in their hand but at the same time, family bonds are loosening gradually. On the other hand, a century ago, people lived a fearless and enjoyable life but without the lights of technological comfort and advent.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1598-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-549-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-leaving-country-to-live-or-study-abroad",
Essay 875:
	Many people emigrate from their native countries nowadays. It has been a gradually increasing trend, as plenty of perspective students as well as ordinary workers leave their homelands hoping to become more successful. However, they usually have to separate from families and leave their places of residence. In this essay will be discussed the advantages and disadvantages of living and studying abroad.
	To begin with, there are some considerable pros. Firstly, the youth can study in foreign universities in order to become prosperous specialists, which is not a trivial goal to achieve in the native country. For instance, some of the best Lithuanian pupils choose to study at University of Cambridge because it is considered to be one of the top universities in the world in terms of the quality of education. Secondly, adults also migrate abroad if they want to earn more money and to have better career opportunities. For example, the minimum salary in the UK is around 1000 pounds, while in Lithuania it is 300 Euros. Therefore, people can afford to satisfy their needs better living in wealthy foreign countries.
	By contrast, there some cons too. To begin with, leaving the homeland usually means damaging relationships with other people. In my personal experience, after my cousins left the country they have not been socialising so much with their parents, although they have kept in touch with them. Additionally, when a person owns a flat or a house, he should continue to pay taxes even if he leaves the place of residence and lives abroad. Thus, noteworthy is the fact that one can miss relatives, and leaving home can be unpleasant sometimes.
	In conclusion, it can be seen that something should be sacrificed due to the seeking of a better life. However, it is generally advantageous to take the challenge of living in a foreign country to become a successful person, being it education or work. It is hoped that all countries in the future will be able to provide its citizens equal opportunities to achieve their life goals.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1597-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-548-nowadays-traffic-jams-are-becoming-a-big-problem-in-most-cities",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1596-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-547-the-society-would-benefit-from-a-ban-on-all-forms-of-advertising",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1595-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-546-exercise-is-the-key-to-health-while-others-feel-that-having-a-balanced-diet-is-more-important",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1594-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-545-most-of-the-countries-provide-free-health-service",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1593-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-544-school-children-are-becoming-far-too-dependent-on-computers",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1587-private-cars-on-the-roads-in-many-parts-of-world-has-led-to-serious-problems",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1586-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-542-some-people-are-becoming-more-interested-in-family-history-research",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1585-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-541-walking-is-the-best-exercise-to-maintain-health",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1584-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-540-to-become-an-expert-do-you-need-talent-or-motivation",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1583-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-539-many-families-find-it-necessary-for-both-parents-go-out-to-work",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1582-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-538-exams-are-an-inappropriate-way-of-measuring-students-performance",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1581-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-537-how-important-is-it-for-children-to-learn-to-understand-and-appreciate-nature",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1580-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-536-drug-smugglers-should-be-punished-by-death-row",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1579-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-535-australia-urges-indonesia-not-to-execute-drug-smugglers",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1578-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-534-many-scientists-and-tourists-would-like-to-travel-to-remote-natural-environments",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1577-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-533-some-people-think-that-they-can-make-as-much-noise-as-they-want",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1576-which-types-of-workers-benefit-from-early-retirement",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1575-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-531-music-is-as-important-as-other-subjects-in-schools",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1574-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-530-different-people-have-different-approaches-to-life",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1573-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-529-capital-punishment-can-be-viewed-as-a-valid-punishment",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1572-disruptive-school-students-have-negative-influence-on-others",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1571-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-527-watching-tv-is-bad-for-children",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1569-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-526-money-is-the-most-important-factor-for-achieving-happiness",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1567-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-525-people-all-over-the-world-are-having-the-same-lifestyles",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1563-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-524-some-people-think-that-mobile-phones-should-be-banned-in-public-places",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1560-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-523-people-in-the-past-used-to-be-more-dependent-on-one-another",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1558-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-522-adult-life-brings-more-happiness-in-spite-of-greater-responsibilities",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1557-some-schools-agree-fast-food-restaurants-and-supermarkets-can-promote-their-products",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1556-in-britain-when-someone-gets-old-often-go-to-live-with-other-old-people",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1555-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-519-what-can-be-done-to-encourage-recycling-among-people",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1554-designs-of-the-buildings-in-the-community-are-affected-by-other-cultures",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1553-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-517-global-warming-is-one-of-the-most-serious-issues",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1552-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-516-modern-high-technology-is-transforming-how-we-work",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1551-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-515-examine-the-arguments-in-favour-of-and-against-animal-experiments",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1550-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-514-private-cars-on-the-roads-in-many-parts-of-the-world-has-led-to-serious-problems",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1549-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-513-nowadays-it-is-easy-to-apply-for-and-be-given-a-credit-card",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1548-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-512-employers-nowadays-put-more-emphasis-on-social-skills",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1547-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-511-the-use-of-video-cameras-in-public-places-is-being-increased",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1546-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-510-qualified-people-are-moving-from-poor-to-rich-countries",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1545-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-509-the-first-man-to-walk-on-the-moon-said-it-was-a-giant-leap-for-mankind",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1544-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-508-many-old-buildings-protected-by-law-are-part-of-a-nation-s-history",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1543-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-507-many-people-prefer-to-work-in-the-public-sector",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1542-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-506-universities-should-accept-equal-numbers-of-male-and-female-students",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1541-schools-have-severe-problems-with-student-behaviour",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1540-some-people-prefer-doing-the-same-things-and-avoiding-change",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1539-visitors-to-other-countries-should-follow-local-customs",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1538-it-is-better-to-educate-boys-and-girls-in-separate-schools",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1537-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-501-today-more-people-are-travelling-than-ever-before",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1536-in-some-countries-average-weight-of-people-is-increasing",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1535-popular-events-like-football-world-cup-and-other-international-sporting-occasions",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1534-every-year-several-languages-die-out",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1533-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-497-studying-at-university-or-college-is-the-best-route-to-a-successful-career",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1532-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-496-smokers-can-cause-themselves-serious-health-problems",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1531-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-495-only-way-to-guarantee-a-good-job-is-to-complete-university-education",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1529-being-a-celebrity-brings-problems-as-well-as-benefits",
Essay 876:
	Firstly, let us look at the negative side of being a celebrity. As the majority of the world follows the film starts or the sports persons, few of them are crazy about the celebrity. For instance, in the headlines of few newspapers, we keep reading about the fans who write a letter by their blood. I am certain that no one would like to receive such letters, constant annoying calls or being stalked by strangers. These all scary things come with the tag celebrity. Moreover being a celebrity is not an easy job. The film starts and sportsman has to continuously perform well otherwise same fans would harm them. For example, when the Indian cricket team did not perform well in one of the matches, their fans broke the cricketers’ houses.
	There are always two sides of the coin. Everybody wants to be a special person. Many people dream to become a celebrity so I am confident that the celebrity status must be giving a lot of advantages. One of the biggest benefits is the money. Celebrities make a lot of money compared to other people. It is known that a supermodel earns more than a school teacher. Moreover, anyone can become a celebrity. For instance, no academic degree is required to become a film star or a sportsperson. Sometimes, the film stars get a chance to shoot in foreign countries or play in different locations. So it’s a great combination of holidays and work. The kind of glamour and publicity received by them is hard to imagine for a common man.
Essay 877:
	Almost everything has two sides – positive and negative; being a celebrity is not different. Sometimes it is good and sometimes is not, what makes a difference is the way they deal with it.
Essay 878:
	People often believe that brightness and success provide them with advantages and drawbacks as well.  I strongly Support the idea that the positive part outweighs the negative ones.
	On the one hand, being a film star or a bright sportsman lead people to be well known, loved and have a lot of people attracted to them. They also find themselves to be admired and respected by a numerous group of their societies and sometimes from around the world. For instance, a film star would be successful and be well-paid besides being internationally famous and revered.  Another example is about sports people who are always appreciated for their fulfilment since they lead their team to be well known and win many prizes from different competitive games.
	On the other hand, celebrities find themselves under the microscope as they are always followed by the press and paparazzi that make them feel insecure and under stress. What’s more, celebrities might get worried about misleading media which sometimes could be harmful to their successful history. A typical example, when wrong news or a misunderstanding for a conversation to the press is published, rumours spread like the wind. Hence, they sometimes would rather stay away from the media in order to keep them secured and not to worry about being bothered by people even though they feel admired by some fans.
	To sum up, being famous and successful is like a sword having two sharp edges that we cannot escape. However, celebrities should get the most of their position and always consider the disadvantages.
Essay 879:
	Almost every human on planet earth has a dream of being a famous celebrity. One has to follow a punishing routine in order to get success. We will explore pros and cons of being a famous person.
	The most rewarding outcome of being a celebrity is fame. Fans adore and worship their celebrity like a god. Wherever you go, people recognise you and you get unrestricted access to almost everything at your disposal. Looking at another side of the coin, fame also creates inconveniences. Wherever you go, people recognise you and try to pose with you and get your autograph. As up the ladder of fame you go, less private life you have.
	Next, the most precious thing is respect. People respect and treat you as a role model. People and press follow actions of you and monitor even slightest move, you make. You can be an inspiration to millions of people, which is an outstanding experience. At the same time, you have to be very cautious with your public and private behaviour. Respect comes with a high sense of responsibility and dignity.
	Monetary gain is another bright side with achieving success. Successful people earn millions of dollars with each assignment and can get everything, which money can buy. On the darker side, they need to maintain the money wisely so that at the end of career they have sufficient money to live a respectful life. For instance, a famous Indian actress like Saira Bano is currently living in poverty after having a successful career.
	In conclusion being a famous celebrity has both pros and cons. It is a gift which a few people get out of millions. With a little inconvenience, I think it has more benefits than troubles.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1528-with-the-rise-in-popularity-of-the-internet-newspapers-will-become-a-thing-of-the-past",
Essay 880:
	In the contemporary world, an ethical and business competition between the digital and print media is quite visible. The future of print media in the digital era is a debatable issue. Though some people hold the opinion that the popularity of printed newspaper will exist in the forthcoming days, my two cents is this print news portal will soon disappear to make way for the digital way of getting news.
	One obvious reason for my viewpoint is that online portals and e-newspapers are gaining vast acceptance by its sophisticated features such as clarity, video sharing, social sharing and instant opinion sharing tools. Over and above, public goes by online news portals than print versions in order to get instant and breaking news. The vast popularity of online editions of the newspapers is the best epitome. When an Internet user can browse virtually any newspaper in the world for free, why should he spend money on reading only a particular newspaper which does not have last hour breaking news?
	Some would argue that there is a different appeal to holding a printed newspaper than reading on the computer screen. That’s true, but they should compare the old way of sending letters to the latest email technology. The number of emails people send on an average is million times higher than the traditional postal mails and in a similar fashion, reading a newspaper would become a tradition of the past while online news portals would dominate the world.
	To draw the conclusion, the newspaper will soon get its place in history. We can expect many new trends in future not only in the case of the newspaper but also in other printed media and that is obvious with the widespread acceptance of technology and its popularity among the young generation.
Essay 881:
	Firstly, let us look at the advantages of using the printed newspapers over the e-newspapers. The feel of the paper will never be replaced by the internet. Moreover, the internet is expensive. A device and the internet connection is required to read the news on the internet. Whereas, for newspapers, someone just needs to buy a subscription. Another limitation on the internet is its coverage whereas newspapers can be used anywhere, for example, garden, beach or in the flight. The digital devices to read newspapers are harmful to the eyes as well.
	Many people, on the contrary, would agree that the popularity of the e-newspaper is a proof that people are accepting it over printed versions. Digital newspapers are eco-friendly. For instance, the reduction of the newspapers would definitely lower the paper production. Ultimately fewer trees would be chopped down. Another advantage of e-paper is unlimited news access. For example, with the internet, anyone can get up-to-date news. The internet also provides the benefit of various languages where the user can choose the language of his interest. For instance, if members of a family prefer to read the news in different languages, online news portals is their best option.
Essay 882:
	The printed newspaper has dominated the last century but has already lost its appeal to a great extent. As the online newspaper is gaining popularity at a rapid speed, I personally believe that new generation will find it cumbersome to read the news in a traditional way and thus it would become a thing of the past.
	To begin with, technology has revolutionalised the way we want to read the news. Online news media has far more technological tools to present news to the viewers than the printed newspapers. Sophisticated technology allows us to comment, share and bookmark a news which traditional newspapers have no way to offer. On top of that, the internet is more eco-friendly than the newspapers. The less printed newspaper we use, the more trees we save. So, the government and other environmental agencies would promote the use of eco-friendly products and services and digital news portals will be more popular in upcoming years. Many European countries’ paper use rates for printed media show a significant decline and it is obvious that this trend will continue.
	Many people say that the reading printed newspaper is not only a habit but also a culture for many human beings. Perhaps it may be true to some degree, but we cannot deny that the new generation is on the path of swift changing cultures and habits, according to the social changes. They hold the view that the faster we accept the changes, the better it is and they mostly read the news on their electronic gizmos such as smartphones and similar devices.
	To conclude, despite printed newspapers' traditional value and a nostalgic appeal, the digital version would surely replace it in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1527-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-492-some-people-think-that-government-should-spend-money-on-health-awareness",
Essay 883:
	Investments in various health sectors by the government always invite controversies both in the developed and underdeveloped countries. The public is always keen about health policies of authorities. Some people hold the opinion that the investing money for health awareness bear better fruit, while others argue that the construction of good hospital bring more beneficial aspects to the public. This essay discusses both the view and adds my own opinion.
	Some people believe that the money spent on health awareness brings about the prevention and control of several ailments. They point to the fact that the massive changes come about by the appropriate health awareness programs. If citizens become well informed and proactive in health-related matters, we do not need to go the extra mile to prevent the break out of many communicable diseases and epidemic in societies. Over and above, many lifestyle diseases can be prevented as easy as pie by proper health awareness to the public.
	Some others believe that the spending money to build hospitals and health care centres pay more dividend. They argue that the well equipped and facilitated hospitals are inevitable to treat many serious ailments such as cancer and cardiac problems. In addition, improvements of some genetic diseases such as Down syndrome and Haemophilia call for better hospital care. Apart from that, the accidents and trauma care are practicable only in good health institutional settings.
	In short, health awareness plays a pivotal role in good health policy. Many lifestyle diseases can be preventable by this attempt.  In my opinion, well-equipped hospitals play the significant role in people's health. In the hustle and bustle lifestyle, the accidents and communication diseases are not uncommon. At this juncture, advanced treatment facilities are the necessary part of society. Health is wealth and investing the money on hospital constructions bears better fruit than any other form of investment in the health sector. It brings in an optimum level of health among the citizen.   
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1526-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-491-do-you-believe-that-experimentation-on-animals-is-justified",
Essay 884:
	Medical science has improved tremendously over last few decades. The majority of the medicines available in the market have been tested on the animals and once the satisfactory results have been received, those medicines are approved for human use. Many people question these days is it required to torture animals in the name of medical needs.
	Experimenting on the animals for scientific purposes has been adopted since many years so certainly there must be few advantages of it. Firstly, human life is very important so it would not be a wise step to try medicines directly on humans. Experimenting on animals is a proved technique. Our science has discovered that the human body is similar to the animals. For example, the anaesthesia, which is used to make animals unconscious, works similarly on the humans.
	On the other hand, it is definitely inhumane to treat animals as a machine. Animals are tortured during the experiments. For instance, to test the nail polish, the chemical is put into rabbit's eyes. Because animals cannot speak, we are unable to understand their pain. In few of the experiments, the animal's body parts are being cut one by one to capture the record the medicine's effect.
	Science has progressed in all the directions. So, we surely have few alternatives which should be encouraged to alternate animal experimentation. One of them is to use more natural products. If the demand for the chemical product is reduced, such experiments would definitely be reduced. For instance, many cosmetic companies are selling natural beauty products, where it is clearly mentioned that "Not tried on animals". If people increase the use of such products, other cosmetic companies would also try to sell natural products. If we can develop medicines to reduce human pain, we should also create medicines to reduce animal’s pain during experiments.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1525-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-490-some-people-help-their-community-as-an-individually",
Essay 885:
	The community is an incredible way to give aid to poor, unhealthy or many other who face many fundamental problems on earth. There are two modes to give aid to the community like some people donate money, food or many more individually while others as an organisation through. We will look at both sides before drawing a logical corollary.
	Some people believe that if they aid to a community by as an organisation then it is very beneficial for community donation because in organisation’s people do work or collect money as a unity so it is obvious that if they collect as a group from door to door then they collect positively correlated with individually. For instance, In India, the most famous organisation as in worldwide is 'Athithi Dev Bavo', which helps to many persons or communities. They provide foods, shelter or good education, as well as they, provide a job opportunity to a poor person who is not able to get this thing in their lives. Thus they believe that helping the community as an organisation is better.
	On the contrary side, some other people think that if they donate something to the community as an individually then it is beneficial for community and donor. They think if they donate money in the organisation then sometimes they do not utilise the money as an incredible way and sometimes some group of people use the donation for other purposes. Moreover, it is also beneficial to earn a more popularity. For instance, the actors of any industry give huge money to the community to earn a more popularity even some rich person also do this thing. However, some rich people make hospital or school for the community where people can get many free facilities such as free treatment, free medicine as well as free operation facility. As an evidence, in Japan, there several individual people who made a contribution to building up numerous hospitals and schools for giving a higher education or cure to the community and thus, they believe the giving a help by direct is creditable.
	To sum up, although above look reveals solid evidence for both sides argument, I strongly believe that if we pay as an independent then its positive correlated with the organisation and the money utilities as in incredible mode, unlike organisation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1523-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-489-what-are-the-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-cell-phones",
Essay 886:
	Cell phones have become very common among everyone, thanks to the technological advancements, the handheld device is available starting from few pennies to even millions of dollars. These tools, depending on features that they come along with, can perform multiple operations. While the technology geeks encourage the uptrend, luddites talk about negative impacts that such devices can bring into the society. Both these arguments will be carefully analysed before arriving at a reasoned conclusion.
	These portable devices have become an indispensable part of our mind which requires entertainment-on-demand. For instance, such devices accessing high-speed network can stream a high definition video live. These devices are also being constructively used to control the smart appliances at home remotely from anywhere in the world. In addition to this, the cell phone is used for improving one’s fitness through some useful application that can help through different fitness routines replacing the need for a trainer. In short, the mobile phones are replacing many other types of equipment and emerging as a one-stop solution for many requirements.
	On the other hand, due to smartphones, people are glued to their smartphone screens even during meetings in office and also while at home. To illustrate, phubbing has become one of the leading bad behaviours in recent years. Specifically, the situation in some of the house is so worse that they chat with their sibling in next room instead of talking to them. To conclude, the socialisation among the social animal is taking place in an unconventional way. This can lead to loss of linguistic speaking skills in a long term.
	Considering the points of view of both camps, the cell phones have many advantages than disadvantages but it is advocated to use the technology judiciously and ensure overall development of human society
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1521-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-488-who-send-their-children-to-private-school-should-not-pay-education-tax",
Essay 887:
	Tax is aiding to creep the authority revenue by the direct or indirect ways from the public. Tax is collected by various modes such as- by Tool tax, Educational tax and so on. It is believed that guardian should not be required to disburse education tax who send their children to private schools.
	On the other hand, it is believed that all people are equal, nobody is different to each other so all people have a responsibility to pay tax as an equality. Moreover, we know that the tax money is used in the government schools for covering the education of students, authority schools can also provide a higher education to students in private schools. In addition to, we also pay an emergency tax for fire brigade or ambulance. As evidence, fortunate, some people do not use this help in their lives but they pay this tax so, as this all parents should be paid education tax even they send their children to private schools.
	To sum up, I strongly believe that all parents should not be pay tax because they already pay huge money to schools. I think as the burden of pay education tax, the students cannot able to concentrate in their study.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1520-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-487-a-woman-s-place-is-in-the-home",
Essay 888:
	There is no doubt that women are contributing equally like men in the economic development of a country. Their rights are more realised now than they used to be in ancient times. Societies recognising efforts of men at work overworking woman is a common trend irrespective of their hard work and the sacrifice they make in their family and profession. Most people believe that they are more suited to home than at work. This essay will analyse the position of working women in society in the light of abilities, cultural norms and religious values.
	Firstly, Men are better adapted genetically to perform physical work, such as operating heavy machinery, cargo loading, digging etc. Women in such domains are not suited due to their structure and nature. For instance, sports, where competitions are primarily categorised on the basis of gender. It is the structure of women that mark the boundaries of what men can do and women cannot. On the other hand, women in nursing, elementary education and customer care services are preferred over men. This is because of their abilities to be patient, devotion, care and pliability.
	However, it has been argued that women are less esteemed in society due to their traditional roles at home. For instance in middle-east, where cultural and religious values demand women to stay back home and devote their time to raising children and fulfilling their household responsibilities.
	To conclude, differences do exist and are largely due to nature. Women place in the house or at work is largely governed by culture, tradition and religious value and not by their abilities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1519-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-486-education-is-the-single-most-important-factor-in-the-development",
Essay 889:
	The idea that education is of less importance in the development of a country is not correct. Some people believe that education is a subsidiary factor in the development of a country while others presume that education is the top most important factor in the development of a country. However, I strongly agree that education is the most important factor in the development of a country.
	The first reason why education is essential for a country is that it dramatically changes people’s way of thinking. Such people will begin to think in a modern way which will improve both themselves and their society. For example, when children or adults receive a good education, they are expected to discover or invent new things which will tremendously contribute to the growth and development of their country. Consequently, it can be admitted that such education enormously influenced people’s way of thinking in a positive way.
	The second reason why education is of a great importance is that it eases and facilitates the communication among countries. In other words, education greatly enables a country to easily and smoothly deal or contact with another country. For example, when people tend to learn a unified language to be the lingua franca among them, they will not face or encounter any communication difficulty. Hence, we can infer that education has its effective role in building a strong relationship within countries.
	In conclusion, there is no doubt that education has its vital role in developing the mentality of people and the means of communication among them. If people pay much care to education, they are, without any doubt, heading towards a development and prosperity of their countries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1517-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-485-governments-should-spend-money-on-other-things-rather-than-art",
Essay 890:
	Art in the form of literature, theatre and visual arts represents the cultural heritage of societies. Societies with rich customs in art and poetry are considered more urbane and advanced. Governments around the globe invest a huge sum of money on art in an attempt to bring eminence in people's life. I don't agree with this and believe that funding should be made on other domains that are more critical in human life such and employment, health, education and sports.
	Government spending money on art would be worthy only if people show interest in it, like art galleries or poetry. In few countries, sports is more appealing than art. For instance, Football, which has more followers than people admiring sculptures or other art.
	Secondly, with the current recession all over the world, people are finding hard to raise their families. The government in such situation should create opportunities for more employment rather than funding projects to improve the art in the society. For instance, administrator of Karachi Metropolitan spends thousands of rupees to revamp old art galleries in order to make them more stylish and modern. The same funding could have been used to improve the lives of art gallery workers living below the poverty line.
	Thirdly, the government should invest more on health and educational sector. There are many regions where people have no access to clean water or educational institutes. Building educational and medical institutes would bring more improvement in their life than constructing a museum to preserve the local heritage of that region.
	To conclude, I believe that is an unjust affirmation that art brings quality in one's life, and I agree money should be invested in more compelling challenges. Investment on art would only benefit a small minority and with time government will recognise that excellence in human lives can only be enhanced by providing decent opportunities in life, not a sculpture.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1516-people-are-choosing-to-read-ebooks-rather-than-paper-books",
Essay 891:
	Nowadays, there has been a significant shift in the way people choose to consume text content and read books, with more and more individuals opting to read e-books instead of printed books. While there are some drawbacks to this trend, I strongly believe that the advantages of e-reading far outweigh the disadvantages.
	To begin with, one of the main drawbacks of reading digital books is that it lacks the tactile and sensory experience of reading a physical book. Many people enjoy the feeling of turning pages, the smell of the ink, and the overall aesthetic of a traditional book. Additionally, e-books are often criticized for causing strain on the eyes, especially when reading for prolonged periods. For example, a recent study in Ireland reveals that young children who read digital books more than four hours a day often suffer from eye problems within the next four years.
	However, there are also several compelling reasons why e-reading has become increasingly popular and beneficial. Firstly, e-books are often more convenient and accessible than their physical counterparts. They are lightweight, easily transportable, and can be stored on a single device, making it easy to carry a library of books with us wherever we go. Furthermore, e-books often cost less than paper books, making them more affordable for many readers. Additionally, e-books are also more environmentally friendly as they do not require paper, ink, and energy to produce. For instance, with the popularity of digital book reading devices, the requirement for printing and cuttng trees has decreased, and as a result, has positively impacted our environment.
	In conclusion, while there are some minor disadvantages to e-reading, the advantages of this trend far overshadow them. E-books offer convenience, accessibility, and affordability, making them an increasingly popular choice among readers. Furthermore, they are environmentally friendly which is a big plus.
Essay 892:
	These days, there is a growing trend of individuals preferring to read e-books over traditional printed books. In my opinion, the advantages of e-reading far outweigh the disadvantages primarily because of their easy portability, accessibility and positive impact on the environment.
	To begin with, e-books offer a high degree of portability and convenience. With the ability to read on mobile devices, laptops or other hand-held devices, one can easily access books from virtually anywhere. Furthermore, the need to physically carry heavy books is eliminated, thereby making reading a more effortless and streamlined process. Additionally, many publishing companies have begun to shift towards e-book production due to the reduced costs associated with their production, resulting in e-books being more affordable than traditional printed books, particularly for students.
	Furthermore, e-books are more easily accessible through online purchases, making them readily available to readers at any time. Additionally, they are more environmentally friendly as they require no paper, ink, or energy to produce.
	However, it should be acknowledged that there are some drawbacks to e-reading. Many literary and scientific works are not yet available in e-book format, making them inaccessible to individuals who prefer e-reading. Additionally, it can be difficult to find certain older books in e-book format, as they are often only available in physical libraries. For instance, once I was looking for a research paper published by one of our university teachers and could not find it online. I had to access it in a library.
	In conclusion, while there are some disadvantages to e-reading, I believe that the advantages far outweigh them. The growing popularity of e-books is a trend that will continue to gain momentum, offering readers convenient, accessible and affordable reading experience while also saving trees and environment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1513-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-483-government-should-try-to-reduce-air-traffic-by-taxing-it-more-heavily",
Essay 893:
	Over the recent years, the popularity of air services has been in demand. Some people claim that air traffic causes inevitable pollution; others see the other side of the coin. I disagree that government bodies are obliged to decrease air traffic using taxation.
	To begin with, if the state increases the taxes, it will significantly affect lower-class people. They will not travel as much as they did before because of the inability to afford tickets. In fact, many families with children will suffer. Some parents might have promised to take the child to popular resort ”Disney World” in the USA or to ski in the mountains in Eastern Europe, but will be forced to refuse them. In addition to this, taxing only lower-class people will emphasise the severity of other issues of these days- the inequalities between humans. It is undoubtedly imposing taxes only on several numbers of people is unfair. As a result it may make them feel humiliated and discontent with the air services.
	Secondly, governments need to consider reexamining the approach to the eco-system. There is a variety of pollutions, for instance traffic from buses, cars and trains should be the primary concern. It is unreasonable to suggest that it is more common problem which requires more attention. Many cosmopolitan cities are more likely to get polluted from the above mentioned types of pollutions than air pollution.  Moreover, it can lead to long-term effects on their health, especially on respiratory system.
	One could draw the conclusion that the taxation should be equally distributed according to income levels among all classes of people. Governments ought to identify the problems related to traffic and select the appropriate ones to work on.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1511-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-482-many-people-are-using-credit-cards-or-loans-to-run-up-huge-personal-debts",
Essay 894:
	These days a lot of individuals are tending to use various kinds of banking services: ordering credit cards, opening bank accounts and loans of different personal purposes. Some people argue that banking operations should be more complicated for customers. It should be unreasonable to suggest it is partly fair to impose some obligations and restrictions on those who are in need of such services.
	To begin with, banks ought to inform people if they wish to lend a large quantity of money, they will be obligated to compensate a higher interest. All kinds of banking establishments have to make certain policies to avoid misunderstandings with customers and lessen uncomfortable situations related to using credit cards and loans. Therefore, representatives of above-mentioned institutions play a crucial role in explaining individuals about their rules. Workers have to forewarn of the consequences of disobeying the points of their rules, for instance, opening a criminal case.
	Banking establishments need to take into account personal factors of the members of society. There should exist different rules for various customers. The members which use the services of the bank for longer periods of time or who have obtained the premium type of card should not be limited in time for repaying debts. They have shown themselves as trustworthy customers and deserve to be treated accordingly. It will stand in good stead for the establishment as well. It will unquestionably add prestige because the bank trusts and values its clients.
	One could draw the conclusion that banking establishments have to take into consideration personal factors of the individuals when creating their policies. Credit cards and loans have to be provided by the bank with limitations for certain members.
Essay 895:
	In today’s modern world, it is certainly true that most people own at least a credit card. Some may even have four to five credit cards which eventually cause them to run up huge personal debt. Some people are of the opinion that government and banking authority should make it harder for individuals to borrow large amounts of money and I strongly agree with it.
	There are several reasons why it should be less easy for people to borrow money. To begin, a huge personal debt will probably increase their burden. Even though they may be worked harder in order to earn more money to clear off their debt, it is always not a simple task for them. According to the statistic from a well-known bank, it has shown that more that 65% of the people are unable to repay which may be partly due to the high-interest rate they have to deal with. As a result, many of them, especially those aged below 30, may choose to end their previous lives by suicidal which we are constantly confronted with newspaper or many of them commit the crime to gain some money.
	Apart from that, the individuals are too materialistic nowadays. They borrow the money from the bank and use it to buy things to satisfy themselves. They think that the more things they own, the happier they are. Therefore, the government should make the procedures to borrow money much more complex in order to avoid the people to get into debt. It is believed that the attitude of people being too materialistic will change as long as there are crucial and effective measures that can be taken. Eventually, the problem of running into huge debt can be prevented.
	In conclusion, there are numerous people who get into large debts due to overuse of credit cards or loans which most of them have not the ability to repay. However, if the government can tighten the rules in the procedure to borrow money from the bank, this problem can soon be coped. I believe our country will continue to prosper and flourish if this problem can be solved in the years to come.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1510-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-481-formal-examinations-are-the-only-effective-way-to-assess-a-student-s-performance",
Essay 896:
	Evaluation methods of a student’s performance have always been an area of contention around the world. Many believe that this can be done by continual assessment of their assignments and project work. On the other hand, people are also in favour of formal examination.  I believe the latter is a more appropriate option. This can be proved by analysing the fact that the homework and projects done at home can be copied and also the memory of a student can be tested in a formal test only.
	Firstly, the workbook assignments submitted by the students are not always done by them. A study by the education department of India proved that many parents help their children in the completion of assignments. Not only this, the projects are also copied in order to submit the same on time. Thus, we can say that it is not a reliable method to judge student capabilities.
	Secondly, the examination that is taken in education institutes makes students learn the concept and also memorise the same that they have studied in their class. Moreover, these are conducted in the presence of Invigilator. Hence, restricting students to take any external help. This shows how much grasping power does an individual have. Therefore, this can be considered as a more reliable method of testing one’s ability.
	To conclude, looking at the discussion it is clear that advantages of formal testing outweigh the advantages of testing by assignments and projects. I believe the method should be implied across the globe and it can be predicted that many countries will adopt this way of assessment because of its effectiveness.
Essay 897:
	Formal examinations have been used as means of assessing students on their understanding of various subjects since time immemorial. Considering it in isolation or in combination with other continual assessment such as course work or projects, it remains a subject of controversy as to the best method of assessment. In my opinion, a combination of the two may be a better way of assessing students.
	First and foremost, the aim of the assessment is to quantify how much the student understands the taught subject in its totality. An examination is usually administered on a single sitting. The outcome depends on various factors such as whether the examination is conducted in a conducive atmosphere, whether the student is healthy during the time of the examination and also the student’s mood. These are all non-academic factors that may affect the result of the examination.
	Secondly, a single examination may not cover the scope of the subject completely especially in broad subjects such as medicine and law. Continual assessments may then come in handy.
	In addition, formal examinations are not flexible enough to assess other qualities possessed by a student such as confidence and the ability of a student to present a topic to the public. These can only be done through other assessments such as presentations and other course works and projects.
	In conclusion, formal examinations are a good means of assessment but should not be used in isolation due to some of its shortcomings such as its inability to cover wide topics, being affected by other none academic factors such as a student’s mood or health. Therefore, continual assessments such as course work and projects should also be considered.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1509-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-480-are-quick-decisions-always-wrong",
Essay 898:
	It is universally agreed that haste leads to repentance. Some people are so inclined to take quick decisions. Others do not like such hasty decisions. However, I am with the latter ones. For several reasons, I strongly believe that quick decisions must be avoided for they lead, to some extent, to devastating consequences.
	There is no doubt that quick decisions affect the person too much. For example, my brother was a teacher. In fact, he was asked by a company to leave his job and to join them. Moreover, they told him that they would give him double his salary that he used to gain from the school. Then, he quickly decided to leave his job and to join the company. Unfortunately, he was not satisfied with such job since it was tiring and boring. As a result, he began to strongly blame himself for such reckless and quick decision.
	It is admittedly known that it is a fallacy that quick decisions are deemed to be like seizing an opportunity. In fact, there is a huge difference between the two. The first means hasty and recklessness while the second is a good thing that we should implement.  Additionally, we should not justify our quick decisions by saying it is a good chance that we have to make use of it. Consequently, it must be noticed that quick decisions have nothing to do with good opportunities or chances since quick decisions are a result of wrong estimate or thinking.
	In conclusion, it cannot be overlooked that quick decisions are harmful and non-effective. Hence, before one decides to take a decision, he has to think it over many times or he can seek consultation or advice from those who tasted the experience of life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1508-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-479-international-sporting-events-are-the-ideal-opportunity-to-show-the-world-the-qualities",
Essay 899:
	Global sporting events like Olympics and FIFA world cup have played a major role in bringing nations closer. Few people believe that these sporting events provide a platform where nations can exhibit their traits. However, others believe that huge money spent for hosting these events is indefensible and I fully disagree with this argument. This essay will present some arguments in favour of hosting international sporting events.
	Hosting global athletic events help countrymen to showcase their traditional and cultural values and reveal their hospitality standards. For instance, recent Olympics in London helped foreigners learn the craftsmanship, rich culture, artifacts, architectures, lifestyle, etiquettes and charitable acts of British people.
	Moreover, investments have done over constructing or upgrading the infrastructure of the sporting arena exhibit how skilled the nation is. During the actual competition, it displays their governance, technological skills, team management and communication skills which can be very inspiring for the visitors. For instance, FIFA World Cup in Brazil spread the message how good the nation is in building complex infrastructure that can accommodate hundred and thousands of spectators.
	Furthermore, another plausible counter in favour of hosting sporting events is the exhibition of moral and ethical values of countrymen. Professional attitude, skills and teamwork displayed by young athletes of the host nation shows how good their sporting academies are at gross root level.
	To conclude, re-recreational events provide a launch pad where a nation can show the flare of its skills and standards. Spectators flocking all over the world can be inspired by these qualities and can even exercise them in their homeland.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1506-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-478-as-technology-develops-so-traditional-cultures-must-be-lost",
Essay 900:
	Technology, the buzzword of today, has improved the quality of life world over. It is true that technology is one of the reasons behind the abrupt destruction of our traditional culture. In my point of view, technology and our tradition go well together.
	Firstly, traditional games from the bygone days have been evaded by the juvenile and by the grown-up. They are much attracted towards video games rather than ancient games. According to them, these are old-fashioned games. An axiom for this issue is to include traditional games into the video games so that younger generation will get exposure to it.
	In addition, traditional musical instruments such as banjos are being replaced by new innovations such as guitars, pianos and so on. Apart from this, the numbers of traditional performances organised have also been reduced due to the invention of idiot box which always broadcast a variety of TV shows and serials, making less importance to the traditional performance.
	In this era of globalisation, people prefer to live in modern apartments. So usages of traditional houses have become comparatively less. Unlike traditional houses, flats offering much secure environment. Moreover, apartment helps to reduce vicissitudes of our life. To have an ancient touch, one can include traditional concepts and furniture while building the apartments.
	In conclusion, the strong current of technological advancement has indeed eroded some traditions; nevertheless, both of them are not mutually incompatible. We can preserve our traditions which reflect our origins and roots but at the same time manage to develop our country with full utilisation of technology as it could be used to reinstate traditions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1505-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-477-there-have-been-significant-developments-in-information-technology",
Essay 901:
	Nowadays, the advancement of Information Technology, specifically the internet has transformed the face of our civilization. Albeit, the internet has several drawbacks, I disagree that it outweighs the advantages.
	It is true that the internet can bring some negative influences toward human behaviour, such as consumerism and autistic manner, to name a few. Consumerism, for example, is caused by the rapid growth of e-commerce, online advertising, and internet accessibility. Because of these, people found it easy to do transactions. They prefer to buy things online other than making an effort to go to their nearest local retail shop. On the other hand, such conditions, especially internet accessibility, which compounded by widespread usage of mobile gadgets, had induced autistic manner among internet user. Autistic here, means, that people tend to be less active and isolated at the same time because they can easily do things with the internet by only having gadgets in their hand or sitting in front of the computer.
	However, information technology has also done justice to mankind. Firstly, it helped brings people together despite country boundary and remoteness. Secondly, due to the internet, people can bridge the gap of communication's distance easily and rapidly. Some examples for these are the usage of instant messenger, email, and online meeting application. Finally, since internet helped eliminate territorial's gap, any world citizen can now easily spread their movement to the global citizen.  
	In conclusion, although Information Technology, particularly internet, has several negative impacts, in my opinion, it has more advantages to offer to our future generations.
Essay 902:
	In the last two decades, the world has witnessed enormous changes in Information Technology and people have experienced new lifestyle by this development. It is obvious that these advancements have brought many benefits for humankind, though it is argued by many, including me, that this enhancement will result in more negative impacts than positive ones in the future. This can be taken into account by analysing both aspects.
	Firstly, looking at the benefits of this unparalleled development we can see that our lifestyle has got a new dimension with the development of IT which people in the past could not even imagine.  For instance, email has made communication faster, easier and less costly. Individuals, business owners and people from all walks of life take advantages of this faster communication and this has made the globalisation a reality. Furthermore, due to the introduction of World Wide Web, human knowledge has been centralised and every topic is now accessible by anyone from any place in no time. People can get information on any subject of their choice. Online education, distance learning, medical advice, research papers, online books, entertainment are just a few clicks away. By taking these examples into consideration it is undeniable that these improvements have made life much easier and enriched.
	Keeping the advantages aside, however, the negative impacts of the technology cannot be ignored. It is often forecasted that the negative impacts would be more severe in the future. For example, with the usage of the email system, the traditional way of communication has been destroyed such as letter writing, face to face conversation and it kills our personal touch with others. This will further decline people's basic ability to socialise and interact with each other in the future. The dependency on technology will bring catastrophe if something goes wrong and the way we are becoming dependent is quite alarming.
	Secondly, because of the huge number of websites and web applications available on the internet, there is no regulatory system to keep close eyes on children’s online activities. This, in turn, could lead to serious moral issues in future. Banking, medical service, traffic control, research, control of a nuclear weapon, shopping, education etc are getting digital and being controlled over the online protocols and a simple mistake could bring unimaginable destruction to human life.
	In conclusion, following the analysis of advantages and disadvantages of the development of IT, it has been proven that it will have more negative aspects in the future and needs to be addressed prudently to avoid harmful effects on individual and society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1503-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-476-western-world-has-been-outsourcing-its-labour-related-jobs-to-cheaper-alternatives",
Essay 903:
	Outsourcing is one of the latest trends followed by many countries around the world. Western nations namely, outsource their labour related jobs to developing countries. This has been criticised by many people across the globe. But I believe this is very beneficial for both the countries involved in this trade. It is because of the fact that it will provide an opportunity for the less developed nations and will also help the developed countries in its growth by decreasing its workload.
	Developing countries get benefits from the work they get from outside. It not only increases the per capita income of the nation but also brings foreign investment in the country which is one of the main sources for country's economic growth. For example, African countries like Kenya, Uganda can improve their financial growth if they get any work from developed nations like USA, UK etc. This is only possible when outsourcing is encouraged by strong powers of the world.
	Also, Developed countries will get benefits from this as well. These nations will be outsourcing their labour and talent related jobs to other countries and will get enough time and manpower for other important work. The USA, for instance, gives their low-level software work to companies in developing nations but uses its best resources in more promising tasks. Thus this process is beneficial for the people of the both of these countries outsourcing play an important role.
	Looking at the above points, we can come to a conclusion that outsourcing of jobs to underdeveloped countries is beneficial for both the nations in terms of finance and growth. So, this practice must be encouraged by all the countries around the world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1502-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-475-examination-is-a-central-feature-of-school-systems-in-any-counties",
Essay 904:
	In today’s school systems tests and examinations are major features in many countries where test plays an important role is believed by some citizens. Whereas on same scale others argue that they are not mandatory. However, I feel that testing should not be major a one in the school system for the following reasons.
	Firstly, a common advantage of examination is that it differentiates best and poor performers i.e., hard working students are smart in tests compared to others. Similarly, school kids feel that if they want to upgrade for next standard they should appear and pass exams. Hence this concept creates a responsibility on studies. However many nations in the world are preferring this testing format in education.
	On the other hand, few drawbacks are noticed such as slow learners cannot perform well in the test and this creates inferior complexity among students. If opportunity, time and new learning techniques are imparted to students, they can perform better in tests.
	Moreover, suicide trends are seen by this examination system. Hence developed countries are exempting testing feature. This phenomenon created confusion in parents, children and teachers whether to continue with the test pattern or simply promote students to next higher class. This brought a drastic change in many countries which headed toward exemption of tests.
	To conclude with, testing the candidate has both advantages and disadvantages and the overall major advantage is slow learner benefit a lot from exam system.  If passing an exam in not mandatory because maturity and seriousness towards studies are not seen in childhood days, the students can improve as well. The test does not always reflect the true reflection of the students’ merit and thus are often biased.       
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1501-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-474-how-important-is-dress-code-in-our-lives",
Essay 905:
	Whether dress code is important or not is a debate that is going for a long time. As far as I am concerned, I think the dress code is important and should be followed especially in schools and offices. The way person dresses up gives a lot of indications about their attitude and personality and therefore can sometimes make or break you.
	Firstly, having a dress code gives you the feeling of unity and togetherness. Many times having a dress code could make people forget their differences and work towards a common goal. For example, all the sports team and government organisations such as police and armed forces have same dress or uniform, which instils the feeling to being part of the team and working for a common goal. Many schools have dress codes, which is very vital to make the student understand that the in spite of differences in their cultural and financial background, they are equals and will only be evaluated based on merit.
	Dress codes are also important in offices, especially in customer facing roles. When a person interacts with the clients, he or she is representing the company and dressing appropriately is essential. Different companies have different styles of work which represented by their dress code. For instance, a financial institution generally has a formal dress code, since it gives the impression of being attentive and serious towards their work. Suppose if a person dresses in torn jeans with loose fitted T-shirt and loafers, I am sure clients would not be comfortable giving their money to such hands. Similarly, if you work in fashion industry, you are expected to be funky and experimental and not wear formal clothes. So, it is important to dress according to the profession you are in.
	In a nutshell, the “first impression is the last impression” and therefore, it is crucial that dress code is carefully chosen and followed.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1499-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-473-younger-people-are-not-suitable-for-important-positions-in-the-government",
Essay 906:
	Government jobs at key positions are very critical and require serious responsibilities. Decision making done through important positions creates a long-term impact on the growth of the country in different sectors. Many people believe that critical offices in government should only be awarded to more experienced bureaucrats, while others believe that one should benefit from the creative and thriving skills of the young generation. This essay will look at both sides before drawing a conclusion.
	One the one hand, many argue that influential positions in government should only be given to older and experienced candidates. They say that experience give them necessary skill set which is vital in their decision-making skills. For instance, in the case of militancy in the country, a General would be more effective in mitigating the situation as compared to a lieutenant who has recently graduated. Moreover, they believe that young people, due to lack of field experience are unable to manage large teams and are unaware of government operations, procedures and regulations. Their induction in key positions can have catastrophic effects on the growth of the country.
	However, there are several plausible counters in favour of this argument. Young generation brings creativity and innovation in their work, which is vital for prosperity in the modern era. Their enthusiasm and dedication are nonpareil with older people. For instance, young government health workers successfully raised the awareness of polio vaccines in the country. Their efforts are evident from the charts where the number of polio cases registered every quarter is decreasing. Often government jobs require rigorous screening based on different criteria and if the youth is successful in passing out those that there is no harm in awarding important government jobs to young aspirants.
	Although the above arguments provide firm evidence for both sides of the argument, it is felt that healthiest approach in offering key government jobs is to ensure they follow rigorous training programs.  Thus, a person's age should not be a discriminating factor in awarding government jobs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1498-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-472-problems-with-environmental-pollution-have-become-serious",
Essay 907:
	It is true that the issues related to the environmental pollution have become one of the most controversial issues nowadays, and every nation is wondering about how to tackle the problem. In my opinion, both government and people have to contribute to solve these problems or at least make it less dangerous.
	On one hand, everyone bears a great duty to protect our environment. To begin with, parents at home and teachers at school should teach the next generation about how to cause less harm to our environment and how to take care of our mother Earth. Through teaching the children about recycling and reducing waste, both parents and teachers can contribute a lot. Also, people can reduce the gas emissions by using public transports rather than personal cars and can choose to walk short distances or to their workplaces. 
	Moreover, by using fewer packages and less plastic and papers, they will reduce a massive threat to the environment. On the other hand, governments should take more efforts to reduce the pollution. Firstly, by making public transport more convenient to encourage more people to use them, this will save more money and energy. Secondly, through the media and campaign, many people can learn more about the importance of the environment. For example, in the UK there is a campaign called make Britain tidy and such campaign encourages people to contribute more to keep the environment clean. Finally, governments should introduce laws to limit the deforestation in many countries around the world, to ensure that there are enough green forests.
	To conclude, there are many ways in which we can address the issue of environmental pollution, and both individual and government have their own responsibility for this.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1497-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-471-top-level-authorities-of-a-company-should-always-take-employees-suggestions-or-ideas",
Essay 908:
	In today's competitive world, it has become essential for all organisations to do their best in every sphere of their business. Innovations and new ideas have become, somewhat indispensable to be able to remain as a part of the competition. Now, the question is who in the organisation should take part in making the business survive? One group of people think that it should be the higher management, whereas, another group of thought believes people across all levels should be encouraged to give their ideas where ever possible.
	It is a fact that people working in the particular area know the ins and outs of the processes involved to perform that job. He is the best person to come out with ideas which can provide a higher output for the organisation in that particular area. For this reason, in many manufacturing houses labourers are given incentives for each new idea they come up with. Such companies value the thoughts of its each and every employee.
	On the other hand, there are companies which believe that it should be the duty of only the higher management to come up with innovations and decisions. Management has a belief that taking ideas and suggestion from everybody would only lead to chaos. Employees may provide suggestion having a personal interest, which could be harmful to the company.
	Innovations and ideas are something which has brought us to this technologically developed world. Perhaps, it has been accepted by all by now. An organisation can only flourish well where its employees are given the freedom to innovate and rewarded for the same. Top level management should be smart enough to judge its plausibility of implementation, as the final decision has to be taken by them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1496-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-470-over-population-of-urban-areas-has-led-to-numerous-problems",
Essay 909:
	There is a fact that a lot of obstacles were caused by overcrowded cities. What problems could it cause and how citizens should prevent these challenges will be covered in this essay.
	To begin, the foremost problem engendered by overpopulation is traffic jams. People spend their precious time on standing in a long- distance stopper, especially when there is a peak time. For instance, my father in order to reach the centre of the city extends one and a half hour. Hence, men could anticipate this obstacle by making use of bicycles or bikes. It might solve the problem on the streets; also make people healthier and sturdier. In addition, governments should appropriate more funds on new roads and special paths for bicycles. For example, authorities in Moscow tend to build wide roads consisting of four lines, so that stream of cars could move faster.
	The second but not least convincing challenge is the lack of educational constitutions such as schools and kindergartens. This is the most widespread problem all over the world. At the beginning when the child is only born, parents could not find a free place for him or her in state kindergarten. Hence, they have to spend more money on private one. Moreover, schools are always replete of students. It is sometimes hard to find a place. In order to prevent this obstacle government should build more schools in all parts of the city, not only in the centre.
	To sum up, overpopulation in cities always was the serious concern of the countries. However, they were doing nothing to abrogate these challenges. In the future overcrowded urban areas can lead to the most deliberate problems.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1494-best-way-to-improve-public-health",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1493-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-468-what-is-the-best-invention-of-last-100-years",
Essay 910:
	Science and technology have advanced many folds in the last 100 years. It has progressed human lives in all spheres. Among all the inventions, the most revolutionary one is the advent of computers. In fact, Computers have become indispensable for communication, education, banking, travelling, health care, aviation industry, and any other industry one can think of. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1492-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-467-public-libraries-should-provide-books-and-not-waste-their-limited-resources",
Essay 911:
	Over the past few years, the advances in high-tech media have started to change many aspects of our lives. Some people think that the public libraries should offer the unlimited access to software, videos and DVDs; while others hold that it is only a waste of money. I tend to agree that public libraries need to be equipped with special high-tech media devices.
Essay 912:
	It is a fact that public libraries are present in almost all cities across the globe, due to its emerging needs. In addition to let reading and selling books, most of the libraries have digital media like software, videos and DVDs. I refute that on top of providing books, libraries should not the rovide latest media to the users. This can be proven by analysing how libraries can attract youths as well as have an advanced effect, by having the option of lending latest technological media.
	Firstly, by providing latest media in libraries, a lot of youngsters will be interested in coming to the library, as they are very comfortable with using the latest technology. For example, consider the software which helps in learning a language. For the young people who are comfortable in using computers can learn the language within very less time, as the software acts as a very good guide. If the same task has to be accomplished by a book, people would find it very difficult as there is no feedback. Thus, it is obvious that by lending latest technology in libraries, can be advantageous.
	Secondly, high technological media can give advance effect as it can be played on the appropriate gadget. For instance, a DVD player has an option to stream the video and it can have the appropriate sound effect. Moreover, it has an option to start, stop and move forward or backwards at any time. Books cannot have any additional effect. Hence, it is clear why lending latest technological media in the library is worth.
	The present era is the blessing of technology and these technological advancements should be embraced as many ways as possible. We are not talking about replacing books by using technological advancement, rather we are talking about adding the benefits that the technology can offer in a library where more people would come and get better facility and learning environment. Hence, spending money for technological benefits in a library is never a waste of money.
	By analysing how lending latest technological media in libraries can help more youngsters attracted as well as can have special effects, it is considered that libraries must provide updated media. It is predicted that the government will give financial support to the libraries to have the latest media.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1491-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-466-consumer-should-avoid-over-packed-products",
Essay 913:
	Over-packaging of products has become a trend in today's competitive world. Producers are trying to attract consumers with an attractive packaging of their products, not bothered about its negative impact not only on our environment but the users as well. It should be the responsibility of the producers to limit the wastage of the resources in the form of unnecessary packaging.  
	The cost of over packaging is actually added to the product sold. In fact, at times it is seen the packing cost and durability is more that the product itself. The type of packaging found in pharmaceutical industries can be taken as an example here. Pills and tablets are found to be packed in much bigger and colourful strips than needed. Does this increase the sale of medicine? No. Such packaging is of no concern to the consumers. But, the cost of medicine would have definitely been lesser if sold in a simple outlook.
	Further, the material used is mostly non-disposable which adds to the environmental pollution to a great extent. Snacks and other food items packaged in eye-catchy shimmering coloured packets are consumed on a large scale by everybody. These packets are really difficult to dispose of as they emit poisonous gas if burnt and if not can be seen to contaminate water somewhere. Producers should realise the importance of using materials like paper and stick to simple packaging.
	Packaging as seen increases the cost of the product and also makes our environment unhealthy. So, this packaging boom should be checked on a serious note by the producers. Moreover, the producers should be restricted to predefined rules and parameters set by the government. It is also recommended that an awareness among the users that quality of the product is important rather than the attractive packaging.
Essay 914:
	There are reasonable arguments in favour of over packaging from the manufacturer. They try to make products as lucrative looking as possible. Consumers have a number of alternative options in the market but some of them concern style or looks of packaging while deciding to buy a product. Attractive packaging could be a significant factor for selling more.  It is generally seen that product producers try to attract their customers in many ways by over packaging. For example, in the case of some biscuit packs, we can see that the biscuits are placed in the small plastic tray and covered with multiple layers of packets. In terms of keeping these sorts of products intact and fresh, it is sometimes necessary to use over packing. In these cases, the manufacturer would show reasons that they are over packing products for the sake of customers’ benefit. From this regards, it seems logical that the customer should make an informed decision whether or not to buy products that use over packing.   
	In spite of views discussed above regarding of over packaging, there are some groups who are in favour of avoiding over packed products and say that the manufacturers are deceiving customers by over packing their products. The cost of packaging and their detrimental effects on our environment could be substantial reasons behind of the opponents’ viewpoint.  All the packaging costs are directly being added to the consumers and they have to spend more than the value of products. A few real products are often presented in a large container and packet and the customers are being deceived by the packet sized. Moreover, the manufacturers often use non-disposable wrappers and packets which add bad effects to the environmental.
	In the end, undoubtedly, extra packaging of products has a detrimental effect on the society; however, as far as I am concern consumers should avoid over-packaging products to solve the negative effects it possessed to them and to the environment. If customers start avoiding such unnecessary over packing of products, manufacturers would be bound to change the way they are doing the packing nowadays. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1490-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-465-what-can-arts-tell-us-about-life-that-science-cannot",
Essay 915:
	It is true that science and technology, nowadays, have benefitted the whole world in all aspects. Although science and technology have a greater impact in our lives, the role of artists is unforgettable, and they contribute a lot in our lives.
	There are many things that artists can tell us about life that science and technology failed to.  To commence with, communication between people in every nation which is the language that they speak with each other, in fact, is a branch of art, this gives people the sense of humanity, and this perhaps the only difference between human beings and animals. Furthermore, creative people can boost us emotionally and change our feelings. For example, lots of  Beethoven's fans listen to his music pieces because they feel relieved and motivated, so music controls our emotions and translates our feelings.
	Another field in which we learn from art is related to culture and history.  Many states show their history through a piece of painting  or the way that people dance and wear, for the majority of people this is the sort of entertainment too, there are people who travel around the globe to visit historical places and art galleries. By contrast, this is not the case when science and technology are considered as they all about practical and physical aspect and do not contribute in our lives emotionally and socially.  
	To conclude, there is no denying the fact that science and technology have great value in our life. However, artists can teach people about many aspects of their life that the former cannot.
	What can the arts tell us about life that science and technology cannot? 
Essay 916:
	Various technological and scientific developments have tremendously enhanced our lifestyle and the way this is expanding, we are expected to have a far better lifestyle in the future than the current era. We have already ushered in a new era of previously unknown and unimaginable feats of technological development and the thanks go to the scientific discovery and invention alone. Despite this, arts, culture and traditions still have so much to teach us and this is why we still value arts and artists.
	One thing arts teach us where science is silent is the appreciation of life. In science, there are a little value of beauty if something does not work. Thus a piece of abstract art has no meaning in science but has great stories to tell when we consider it an art. In the world of arts, beauty matter in and of themselves whereas in science, the only true measure is whether it works or not. Arts offer us a spiritual outlook of life while science teaches us just the opposite. We are surrounded by nature which is a rare combination or science and arts. If we leave out the arts and beauty from nature, it would become a dull theory of how molecules work together. To give an example, if we listen to the music of Mozart, we can learn about harmony and joy through the medium of music or if we read classical novels, the past world reveals itself to us. Moreover, when we look back at the stars in a dark night, we appreciate the beauty and arts have taught us to appreciate this beauty.
	The great artists tell us about the true joys of life. Thus a classic book can teach us more about life than a biology book can. We do not need to understand arts to appreciate music, books or art exhibition but we need to understand scientific theories to understand how something really works. The artists reflect life and teach us to learn about our inner-value. When we start appreciating arts, we start living the life to its fullest and live for others.
	So to say, science and technology have made our physical world more comfortable in this century and will keep bringing new wonders in our daily life, arts and humanities have taught us to appreciate life, to live for a reason.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1488-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-464-internet-is-making-the-world-smaller-by-bringing-people-together",
Essay 917:
	It's quite interesting as well as amusing at the same time, discussing this topic. If we remember back in the 80th, we still very much attached to a conventional letter or postal mail. It took weeks even months before a single letter arrived at a destination. But in the 90th, the way people communicate accelerated to a profound degree. The Internet not only allowed people to send and receive messages across countries in the speed of light, but it also managed to cut the expensive cost which previously part of communication constraint.
	In present days, even home telephone devices are collecting dusk. Smartphone, tablet, laptop and notebooks had overtaken those "primaeval" devices. People found that application like Whatsapp, Blackberry messenger, ease their way to interact with each other. In fact, text messaging took its turn to become obsolete. We also shouldn't neglect the power of social media, which escalated as a powerful tool for political communication. Current American President, who once remarked this, had successfully gained followers to help him won the presidential election.
	But the internet has several negative sides as well. Instant Messenger, for instance, had been pointed as a scapegoat for making youngster became more "autistic" due to its nature in physical inactivity. When distance no longer an issue in interaction and having gadget in hand, it is all that it takes to start mingling with your peers. Not to mention, these days news related to social media's crime scene had brought horror to certain people. It also pledged guilty as the predisposition factor for increasing numbers of infidelity and divorce among the couple.
	So as the internet has brought a lot of advantages to human civilisation and had triumphantly change the way we communicate, the cons inevitably followed as its consequences. Thus, we all shall take precaution with it.
Essay 918:
	There is no doubt that the internet has an immense influence on the people over the last few years. Technological advancements also contribute a lot in widespread usage of this technology. Some people argue that the internet provides fast, reliable and cheapest ways of communications. Others state that people become isolated and disconnected because of excessive use of the internet. I believe that the internet has undeniable benefits and it helps people to link with each other.
	The Internet provides different ways of communications, which are highly reliable and adoptable. Before the advent of the internet, people used other media of communication such as letters, phone calls etc. which cost them handsome amount and time. However, the internet gradually changed the ways the people communicate. Nowadays, everyone has mobile, laptop, tablet etc. and these devices are equipped with the internet that makes them in touch with their peer group using social networking applications.
	It is often seen that people are becoming unsocial due to the internet. They are relying more on technology than their friends and relatives. They consider communicating over the internet is sufficient and do not like to bother meeting each other. Sometimes individuals living in same premises prefer to talk using cell phones and electronic gadgets rather than talking directly.
	Because of the internet we can talk and keep in touch with people which might have been impossible otherwise. The professional and business communication greatly depends on the internet and because of the widespread usages of the internet, we can stay in touch with people we care.
	To sum up, I believe that advantages of internet overweigh its disadvantages. The Internet makes this world as a global village by removing the barrier of distance. Economical ways of communication advocate people to talk more freely without worrying about cost. According to a recent survey, about 70 percent of the world is using the internet for communication. This survey justifies the importance of the internet in our lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1487-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-463-nowadays-tv-has-become-an-essential-part-of-life",
Essay 919:
	The invention of Television around two decades back opened wide frontiers for transmission of visual communication and awareness. Since then the research and development on this have never paused, and today we have 3D and curved televisions available as well. In fact, it will be hard to find any domestic family without watching TV as a part of their daily life. It has helped in making the world a smaller place to live in by making all sorts of shows, latest news update and information in all areas via a wide range of channels.
	Television provides a wide range to channels to choose from on tourism, travel, foods, lifestyle, news, general knowledge, movies, music, reality show and many more. In fact, the information is so useful that many people plan their holiday based on a show on tourism, they try to cook new items by following the recipe shown, become aware of all sorts of happenings in the world and least to mention the craze about the sports event.
	For many, TV is almost indispensable as they believe it to be a friend which is always there when needed. Nowadays, TV is available with video games, quizzes, and other interactive functions. It can be a good way to spend time with it, which is often necessary when alone.
	Television has influenced our lives so much that people watching daily soaps especially have a hangover of the show throughout the day. But, it is our duty to limit anything in too excess. The benefits which TV has brought into our daily lives cannot be denied.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1486-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-462-what-are-the-possible-effects-of-living-long-on-an-individual",
Essay 920:
	The survival period of the individuals has increased in the recent time. Some people believe that this trend has positive effects while others refute this claim. In this essay, both the viewpoints will be critiqued before reaching a reasoned conclusion.
	On the one hand, there are groups of people who consider long life has benefits on the individuals and the society. The main reason for believing this is that the society is able to utilise the experience of the matured people for the growth of the economy of the country. Furthermore, this group of grown-ups can help the young people to take mature decisions in their personal as well as professional life. Thus, the positive implications of rising in the life span of the people on the masses and the society are clear.
	On the other hand, some consider the extended life of the humans can have numerous disadvantages. One main drawback will be the swelling in the world's population since the death rate will be declined. As a consequence of this, the pressure on the local resources will be increased and still some people will not be able to receive the required resources. In addition, with the increase in the numbers of the aged population, there will also increase in the responsibilities of the young generation and thereby, affect their career and family life. Therefore, the negative impacts of the increased life period of the people are difficult to debunk.
	After analysing both the views, it is felt that for the well-being of the individuals and the society, the life span should not be increased beyond a certain limit. 
Essay 921:
	There are many merits associated with longevity, such as people can share the achievements and other memorable events of their grandchildren like their marriages or birth. Some people believe that increased life span can give them a chance to complete their unfinished work which they have dreamed for. For instance, my grandfather’s long life helped him to complete his book over History of Jarcha Community which he quit working over due to increased responsibilities when he was in his 40's. Senior citizens can render valuable advice which can be fruitful for the society over time. Furthermore, their experience and knowledge can be used to educate youth which can result in marvels.
	On the contrary, old people can become a burden on the family and on the government. More funds would be required to meet their medical, housing and other living expenses dispersed to them in the form of pensions and other funds. These funds are collected in the form of tax from youth. With older people in rise, we can lose their senses and their thinking can be impaired while working on key positions their decisions can be drastic for the welfare of the society. Moreover, their way of living results in conflicts with the youth which disturb the family environment and relationship. For instance, senior people don't like noise and they tend to sleep early, which give rise to conflicts when adolescent want to celebrate late night parties.
	To recapitulate, the aforementioned provides some plausible argument on both views. Increase life expectancy has both positive and negative aspects associated with it and it depends on people how they take it forward.
Essay 922:
	Undeniably, death is a terrific affair to all the human and each and every individual denies to accept this inevitable event. Therefore as an individual, increased life expectancy is a benefit that they can live longer and enjoy their time on Earth. In addition, long living is a positive trend towards the development of a country. For instance, increased life expectancy contributes more to more workforces to a country and in turn, raises the productivity of the nation. Professionals like doctors, researchers, writers, political leaders and much more can contribute to the country even more in their old ages with their immense experience in life.
	In contrast, increased human lifespan has some drawbacks also. Firstly, it will worsen the unemployment rate in an overpopulated country like India. Moreover, increased life expectancy might proportionally increase the dependents’ rate. For instance, it will cause an elevated number of retired people and in turn, it will be a burden to the family and society, no matter how cruel it might sound. Furthermore, society needs more funds for the medical and recreational facilities for the older generation. Finally, life in old ages is fragile and diseases attack easily and make an individual’s life miserable. For some people, a short and healthy life is more desirable than a long and suffering life. Hence increased life expectancy has some adverse effects on both the individual and the society.
	Putting everything into consideration, the longer life is a positive development for the individual and the nation in terms of our desire to live long with others and to contribute to the country, whereas it will cause unemployment, dependency and sufferings also.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1484-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-461-recent-figures-show-an-increase-in-violent-crime-among-youngsters",
Essay 923:
	It appears that the youth crime rate in the modern world is increasing at an alarming rate. Although there may be many factors causing this issue, it is perceivable that the absence of suitable education provided by parents and teachers are the major problems behind this circumstance. This position will thus be analysed in the following paragraphs, supported by relevant examples.
	Firstly, parents' increasing occupational commitments have limited their opportunities to educate children on moral qualities. The current economic condition of the contemporary society requires parents to spend more time at work. This has consequently created fewer interactions between children and parents, precluding youngsters from learning basic emotional aspects such as love and affection from adults. An exemplary case can be seen from my cousin, who barely gets a chance to learn about a specific manner to talk to strangers or elderly people. Hence, it seems that such reality has disabled him to possess an ethical mindset, which might cause behavioural problems outside the home in the future.
	Secondly, the modern education system enforces students to obtain tangible achievements, rather than ethical perspectives. For instance, there was a girl in my high school who performed well academically. Although she frequently offended other classmates' feelings with foul words, she was continuously favoured by teachers because of her good grades. It is personally felt that such an inappropriate teaching motives of the teachers have left many students to focus on achieving material accomplishments, regardless of how badly one behaves.
	In conclusion, the two aforementioned ideas clearly encapsulate how the lack of solid and ethical supervisions by adults leaves children to develop problematic thoughts and behaviour.
Essay 924:
	Many people, social activists including psychologists suggest that these behavioural tragedies happen due to the lack of attention to the children from their parents and teachers. In my opinion, though the above-said context is true and significant, there are obviously a number of other reasons contributing to it.
	Nowadays, people have a hectic lifestyle that they are engaged mostly in professional life and hence there is little room for family life and recreation. Compared to ancient days, family get together and involvement among family members are often seen rarely. Therefore children who are students, normally enjoy their freedom than they deserve and they are not given enough counselling in order to make them able to choose what's best for them. Teachers are also majorly looking at the academic performances rather than social and emotional development.
	On the other hand, there are so many other factors which could actually make the scenario worse. The use of the cyber world, the addiction to online social media are arguably some of them. This enables pupils to experiment new things which were normally entitled to only adolescents in the early generation. Students and youngsters are also being influenced by the violent games and negative role plays in the movies. Moreover, the availability of drugs and narcotic materials have made the situation dangerous. For example, reports suggest that in India, the use of euphoric substances such as Marijuana has inclined to lead to the rise in the number of registered police cases. The lack of education to parents regarding all these topics are also a contributing factor.
	In a nutshell. I certainly believe that day by day more youngsters are engaged in anti-social activities and this can only be prevented by a systematic approach by both parents and by the governments.
Essay 925:
	In the prevailing scenario, crimes are drastically increased all over the world, this is due to people valued for money rather than the values and relations. According to me, youngsters are not getting enough support from their parents as well as from the teachers, whereas some adolescents attracted to the bad habits through their friends.
	To begin with, in this contemporary world, both the parents need to work to get an economical status in the society. So, they don't have time to check and teach their kids how to behave in the society. For instance, in the US, most of the people are doing jobs by leaving their children in the baby care centres and they don't have time to spend with them. Because of that absurd behaviours can be observed among teens and they don't understand the moral values.
	Moreover, teachers’ role is very important in a child's life. They are the key persons in building a society. But nowadays, they are merely teaching the subjects like Mathematics, Science and languages. They have to teach not only academic lessons which are useful for the future career of students but also the social and emotional qualities need to improve in a child. For example, in the developed countries, children are not respecting their teachers. I recently read a news article about a child; the child went to school with a gun and shoot a couple of his classmates and a teacher and then he shot himself and died.
	However, adolescents also are getting attracted to their friends without any knowledge of the moral values. They don't understand what is right and what is wrong. So, they are getting addicted to bad habits like drugs, smoking and spoiling their lives. In fact, during my secondary education, a person had a habit of smoking, and he encouraged other persons and some people learnt that habit. Sometimes without their knowledge, they get addicted to other people's bad habits.
	In conclusion, children need to get an emotional bond with the parents. In my opinion, grownups should have the social values from their parents and teachers, however, sometimes, they need to know on their own to make decisions.
Essay 926:
	Today’s society has been pressured into resolving numerous tough and sensitive issues that have become stronger and negatively affected to all people, especially the young generations who are living in the information and digital age without necessary control and permissions from their parents and teachers. It’s undeniable that families and schools play paramount roles in children development in their personalities and psychology, which forces the under 18-year-old to walk on the criminal road unless having it. Nevertheless, a host of considerable reasons in relation to the constantly changing society, technology and education system is also regarded as the big contribution to the climb in young criminals.
	The family is commonly considered as the most influential element on how a child is nourished and able to develop his characteristics in the future. However, there are more and more unexpectedly detrimental factors including parents-related relationship problems, unbeatably attractive modern gadgets and the hustle and bustle of the 21st-century lifestyles, which results in parents’ less concentration and proper education on their children.
	Additionally, the significantly increasing pressure on exam results stemming from the peers and the teachers at schools has been occupying most of the attention rather than emotional and psychological cares for the students. Children under the age of 18 in this century are really facing a wide variety of social and emotional problems than their early counterparts, but it seems that they are standing alone against to most of the negative impacts from the exam-oriented education system, the serious lack of teachers’ instructions and orientation on personal development.
	In conclusion, the rapid advancements in technology, the continuously changing living styles and the education systems discouraging individual and moral development together with deficiency in parents’ and teachers’ social and emotional teaching have been becoming some of the most concerned causes which lead the youngsters to be more violent and become criminals in the near future.
Essay 927:
	Brutal crimes committed by the young people are on the rise today and this is a very concerning issue for many. The recent statistic and expert opinions indicate that the increased juvenile crime rate is rooted in the lack of their social and moral learning and lack of proper teaching, training from the parents and teachers. In this essay,  I will express my opinion in agreement as I believe that social and emotional learning in childhood from family and schools are not efficient these days.  
	Obviously, living cost is rapidly increasing and both the parents are working outside to earn their daily bread. As a result, children are unattended for a long time. In addition, parents, for instance, are tired after their hectic work day and busy with their own business. So children hardly get time to interact with their parents. Emotional bonding between the children and parents has become weaker and the number of divorced father or mother is increasing drastically. Moreover, nowadays children are busy with the latest technological devices and thus become less active socially. Most of the parents are busy with their own career and do not restrict the usage of computers and internets. They in many cases do not observe what their children are doing. Furthermore, adolescent age is a crucial period and lack of parental care and support may lead to antisocial behaviour. Lessons and moral values learned in the childhood impact someone’s adulthood and thus the lack of proper parenting lead them to become criminals in even early ages. The children get involved in drugs, crimes and other unlawful activities due to their lack of parental guidelines, sensitive age, depression and bad lifestyle.
	Furthermore, teachers are often considered as the best mentors for students and their lack of attention, responsibility and quality as teachers often ruin the students. Unfortunately, in this competitive world school curriculum do not consider students aptitude and restrain them within a tight academic schedule. As a result, teenagers easily get distracted from the subject and may turn to be violence person. Secondly, teachers in the past not only focused on the students’ academic learning but also to their moral side. But nowadays, educating the moral side is the least priority with the intention of business in schools. Thus the teenagers are not learning from a mentor but from someone whose main intention is to earn money and save the job.
	In conclusion, it is clear that today's paradigm shift in family and school environment is responsible for increased crime rate among the teenagers. Both the parents and the teachers should pay proper attention to the children and should become ideal people from whom children will learn the morality and values of life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1482-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-460-modern-technology-has-more-negative-effects-on-our-lives-than-positive-ones",
Essay 928:
	The 21st century has already seen considerable progress in technology. It is true that this improvement in technology has revolutionised our lives. However, I believe that this has more negatives harms than benefits on individual's life. In this essay, the manner in which development of technology has affected communication and employment opportunities will be analysed.
	To begin with, people nowadays are more dependent on the electronic devices for communicating with others. A good illustration for this is the recent innovation of the ‘Whatsapp’ which provides an alternative for sending messages free of charge. Although this innovation has eased the means of communication it is nowhere compared to the face-to-face communication and it lacks the feeling of closeness. Thus, the link between improved technology and degraded communication skills can be seen.
	In addition, advancement in technology has resulted in replacing people with the machines at various workplaces. For instance, the existence of labour-saving devices such as dishwasher, washing machine and vacuum cleaner acts as a substitute for the house-maids causing the rise in the unemployment. Because of this, individuals have to depend on the government for their basic needs and thus the economy of the country is affected. Therefore, the negative implications on the work status as well as the economy of the society are clear.
	From the above examples, it is difficult to debunk that technological advances have afflicted the peoples' lives. It is thus hoped that the elected representatives will take measures to minimise the usage of technology in certain places for the well-being of the society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1480-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-459-machine-translation-mt-is-slower-and-less-accurate-than-human-translation",
Essay 929:
	Inaccuracy and lagging in performing the translation by machines, even though the technology is well advanced in the recent decades, making it difficult for them compete with the human. I completely agree that Machine translation will not supplant the Human translators in the near future.
	In today’s globalised world there are about several hundreds of languages, even though most of the languages is having antecedents to Sanskrit, each is having different grammatical structure and the word meaning tends to change based on the context making it difficult for Machine translation software to attain preciseness in the translated text. As a result of tackling the difficulties in the languages, the software programme had become heavier which in turn caused slowness in translating the text from one language to another. Even our latest supercomputers are not able to translate and compete with humans in terms of speed of translation and accuracy.
	Humankind had built the effective tool "language" to communicate, express, and share the feelings with each other and practising it for last several 1000 years. Our brains are super-machines and were being taught and practised rigorously to read, understand, and translate the language from one to another in a fraction of a second. Even by today, no computer scientists or any software making giants did not succeed in making a machine capable of competing with the human brain in performing computations. Unless any scientist succeeds in attaining the speed of communication across the computer components similar the brain cells, it is found to be difficult in achieving the speed and accuracy of humans by Machine translation software programmes.
	As a result of the hurdles in the current technology to attain the speed of the human translators by machines, we can safely conjecture that machines are incapable of supplanting human translators in near future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1478-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-458-it-is-quite-common-for-both-parents-in-a-family-to-work",
Essay 930:
	With the modernization of the society, it is not uncommon to see both the parents working. There are various reasons for it. Firstly, everybody wants to be financially independent. Secondly, with the increasing inflation and cost of living, it sometimes becomes necessary for both the partners to work. But there is no gainsaying in the fact that this impacts family life and children.
	When both the partners are working, it becomes difficult to spend time together and with the family, especially when the work timings are different. Children suffer the most in this situation. Mostly when children are merely one year old, they are sent to day care centre and are taken care by strangers. Childhood is a very crucial time in everybody's life.  This is the time when children learn most, they pick up good or bad habits, develop emotional bonds with their parents. But when both the parents are working, children spends most of the time away from their parents and hence the emotional connect is not as strong as it should be. Even when all family members meet in the evening, both parents would be tired of all day work and could not spend quality time with each other.
	One major drawback of the both parents working is there is nobody to constantly keep an eye on children and to correct them instantly. For example; when I was growing up, my mother was always at home when I came back from school, and I would spend hours telling her what happened in school. She would feed me wholesome food and then help me with my homework. As I was growing up, she taught me, how to cook, do the dishes, and clean the house. Whenever I was late for home, I was answerable to her. Whenever I committed any mistake, she could catch it instantly and would correct me. Her constant support helped me, not only in achieving good grade but also to be a better human being; whereas my friends whose both parents were working, would come to an empty house, they would mostly survive on snacks after school. Their grades constantly suffered because they would watch TV or loiter around during study hours. They would often lie to their parents and would escape uncaught.
	Other problem that impacts the family life when both partners work is "ego". Since both are independent, ego often comes between both the partners; there would be a lot of argument. The increase in divorce rate is also due to this decrease in tolerance level.
	In nutshell, it is sometimes important for both the parents to work but this certainly has an impact on children and the family life. In this situation, it really becomes necessary to pay extra attention towards their children and try and spend as much time with family as possible.
Essay 931:
	Expenses are increasing day by day for all kind of human requirements like food, accommodation and children education, etc. and living standard is improving due to various technological innovations. So, it has become common for many families to have both parents working. There are two kinds of families having working parents nowadays. Some may choose for having a better life and to make their future financially secured, while another choose because of their financial needs. Recently, from last decade women empowerment has seen a significant improvement. So, Women are sharing equal responsibilities with men in all professions.
	On contrary, other believes that both working parents do not give enough attention to children’s development. Thus, children become undisciplined and may go out of hand sometimes. According to them, if one of the parents is earning enough money, then another should concentrate on children’s development. Money is not a serious matter always. Parents should not become too greedy.
	There are many examples of both working parents from my friend circle. They are good parents and understand their responsibilities towards their children. So, as a conclusion, I will say it depends on the way of thinking of individuals and the way of interacting with their kids. One should identify own situation and requirements and act accordingly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1474-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-457-it-is-better-for-boys-and-girls-to-study-separately",
Essay 932:
	Unlike in coeducation, boys and girls study separately in their own classes. Promoters of Separate sex classes believe that students could show better results while studying separately. I disagree that mixed sex classes distract the students from their education.
	Mixed sex classes have its own advantages and disadvantages. But, its advantages are much more than disadvantages. One of the key advantages of coeducation is the high level of competition among boys and girls. It is natural and obvious that students try to be ahead of opposite gender, and they work harder and focus on their studies to gain the higher rank. This is also true for extra-curricular activities where boys and girls participate together in various activities.
	Another advantage of mixed sex classes is the confidence. Students of coeducation have a high-level confidence and they can talk without shyness in front of opposite gender. This will greatly help them in their professional life. Higher confidence also plays a vital role in their interpersonal skills and overall personality. In addition to these, most of the colleges and universities do not have separate classes for boys and girls, so children already studying in coeducation never face any adjustment problem in mixed-sex classes in colleges and universities.
	In the end, it is concluded that boys and girls studying in mixed-sex classes are not distracted due to coeducation. In fact, distraction varies from person to person. A student who studies separately can be more distracted due to the absence of opposite gender, and waste the precious study time finding the solution of such distraction.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1471-best-way-to-solve-growing-traffic-and-pollution-problems",
Essay 933:
	Over the last century, our cities faced unprecedented growth of traffic congestion and as a result of this, we encounter a litany of environmental pollutions. Some experts believe that the rising cost of petrol is the best way to tackle these problems. I firmly believe that there is a defensible basis for this argument. In this essay, some other possible solutions will be elaborated.
	The proponents of this view claim that recent studies have shown that due to increasing the price of petrol, the user of this energy has dramatically decreased. As a result of this, the wide demand for petrol has slumped. The key point to justify this attitude could be illustrated by a tangible example. Our country “Iran” has a high reputation for having oil resources. Consequently, the price of petrol was not justified by comparison with another country. To cut a long story short, after applying this idea in cities, the evidence has shown most of the people turn to some Alternatives instead of the use of a private car. For example, by the time went on, the rising price of petrol has caused majority the people use much more public transportation rather than the past.
	Alternatively, there are other possible solutions to address this issue. First and foremost, governments should give special care to renewable energy such as water, wind, solar energy and etc. Also, they should encourage people to use public transportation such as electric tram, metro, bus and etc. Last but not least, we should own up to the fact that we need cultural reconstruction about the true understanding of the energy crisis on our planet.
	In conclusion, from what has been discussed above, increasing the price of petrol can be an effective factor to reduce consumption of this energy, at least in my country. Serious measures should be taken by government and individuals as a duty for solving these problems. Also, the government must assume responsibility, stop passing the bulk and settle down the effective laws to control this issue. Finally, it is absolutely imperative we should not try to be wise after the events.
Essay 934:
	On the one hand, there are people who think that increasing the price of petrol will reduce its use and, thus, decrease rising traffic congestions and pollutions. However, in spite of increased petrol price people will continue to use it as there are no other viable options available to run vehicles. Hence, it will not bring much change in solving growing traffic issues and pollutions. In fact, due to the increase in petrol price cost of goods may increase because of an increase in transportation costs, creating detrimental effects on the economy.
	On the other hand,  if more sustainable energy like solar power, wind power, and hydropower are utilised to run vehicles and factories, there will be less emission of harmful gases like carbon mono oxide and CFC which contributes increasing air pollution considerably. In addition, using solar power to run public vehicles would result in cheap fare. This will encourage people to travel through eco-friendly cheap trams, trains and buses.
	To conclude, increasing the price of petrol is not the best way to resolve the growing traffic congestions and pollutions. Thus, an effective way to control the aforementioned issues would be to use other renewable sources of energy in the public transport system which can significantly bring down traffic and pollution problems.
Essay 935:
	Traffic and pollution have been being two major concerns worldwide lately. Several solutions have been proposed to deal with these problems, improving the price of petrol for example. However, whether or not it is effective is debatable. Yet, I personally agree with proposing a more expensive price of petrol to reduce traffic and pollution based on demanding point of view.
	To begin with, a classic economic theory clearly argues that the higher the price, the lower the demanding of a product and reversely. By increasing the price of petrol, more people may be more aware of using the vehicle considerably since they need to pay more to fill the tank. This idea can lead to a systematic approach to reducing traffic and air problem through declining possibilities of people to buy fuel needed to run their vehicle and this may result in reducing the number of transportation tool subsequently. For instance, Whitehorse city has imposed the expensive price of fuel and gas which influences the number of vehicles operating and as a result, it comes up as the cleanest air city of the world.
	Meanwhile, the other way to overcome traffic and pollution is by optimising public transportation. A good system of public vehicles accomplished by better infrastructure may be delightful to everyone and can attract individuals to use public transportation more often than their own vehicles. This idea certainly can minimise the amount of traffic and pollution as well. Mass rapid train in China and Japan, for example, sophisticated transport and well-managed train schedule have successfully brought up these countries in lessening traffic problem.
	All in all, a wide range of solutions is available to help cope with traffic and pollution problem. Improving fuel price and public transportations are true as proposed solutions.
Essay 936:
	Traffic congestion and pollution are two pressing issues all over the world. As the majority of cars and bikes are petrol driven, elevating petrol price can reduce their numbers on the roads, and as a result, help control traffic congestions and pollution to a great extent, I believe.
	Unlike the past, when only rich people could afford automobiles, a majority of car and motorbike owners, these days, are from middle-class families. Therefore, a higher fuel cost will affect their budget, and many of them might opt-out using petroleum driven cars. Such surge in prices will increase the demand for public transportations which is by far the most efficient way to pull out the pollution and traffic jam problems.
	Moreover, such a price hike will make eco-friendly automobiles popular. For instance, electric cars, or CNG or LPG driven vehicles can become a viable option for consumers. Although it cannot reduce traffic problems, it can reduce pollutions effectively.
	Other solutions can also be considered instead of upscaling petroleum price only. To begin with, the government can implement policies to restrict the number of cars per family can own, and also offer subsidies to citizens to purchase electric cars.
	An odd-even approach can be implemented by states where number plates ending with odd numbers can use some roads during rush hours while cars with even number plates can run on other streets. Besides, citizens should change their mindset and help the authority in curbing traffic jams and pollutions.
	To conclude, increasing petrol price will open the doors for alternative options which can, directly and indirectly, combat both traffic and pollution problems. The government should make sure the petrol price does not hike the price of other necessary commodities.
Essay 937:
	It is considered by many that increasing the price of fuel is one of the most effective methods to curb escalating traffic congestion and pollution problems. I somewhat agree with this proposition, and I will explain my point of view as well as suggest some measures that could have a huge impact on this matter.
	On the one hand, there is no doubt about the uncontrolled growing traffics and pollutions as a consequence of rapidly growing cars on the streets. So in order to solve these issues, we need to take steps to control the number of vehicles that run on the streets every day. And increasing the fuel price seems like a great solution. This will also make people think about using alternative energy sources which cause no harm to the environment. One good example here is the use of hybrid cars instead of gasoline dependent ones. However, rising petrol price will make it exclusive for wealthy people and thus poor population will not be able to afford to use petroleum products. This will increase the prices of daily commodities.
	Then, turning to other possible solutions than to increase petrol price, which are effective in facing the velocity of traffic flows and pollution; one of these could be setting new restrictions in relation to daily or weekly fuel consumption. For example, determining particular days to use petroleum-driven cars and utilizing other options which are environmental friendly could be a great step. Another solution could be educating people about the importance of saving our environment and the consequences of pollution using multiple advertising media. For instance, through newspapers, the government should encourage people to use non-petroleum items to drive cars.
	In conclusion, elevating petrol prices is one of the ways to slow down the pace of growing traffic and its problems related to pollutions despite its negative effects on poor people of society. Alternative ways, which are equally or more effective than increasing fuel price, should be considered to curb these issues.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1470-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-455-school-children-should-learn-some-practical-skills",
Essay 938:
	According to some people, pupils should be taught few real-world skills at the young age. I completely agree that learning these talents can enhance the child's career and help them to sustain in the society independently.
	To begin with, having knowledge about some practical skills can open doors for the part-time employment. A good illustration for this is one of my neighbours whose parents had to face financial crises after he completed his higher school. At this stage, he was able to work in a car-repair shop and thereby, fund his graduation. This was possible due to the fact that one of hi school subject was related to the mechanic's task. This example clearly shows the importance of acquiring practical knowledge for the children.
	In addition to this, some students find it difficult to concentrate on studies and hence, fail to acquire degree required for getting employed in any company. For such students, these skills can act as a saviour and they can earn their own livelihood. For example, one of my cousins was not able to complete his graduation even after several attempts yet he managed to establish his own shop for the house maintenance since he was having knowledge about the same. Thus, the benefits of garnering such skills are difficult to debunk.
	After analysing all the sides, it is clear that the acquisition of such skills can only bring advantages to the learner. Thus, it is expected that the educational institutions will introduce such subjects in the curriculum.
Essay 939:
	It is true that children learn educational subjects at school, but not many hands-on skills. I completely disagree that schools should teach services like bank account management and car maintenance.
	On the one hand, school curriculum plays a vital role in students’ career. Firstly, children could give full attention to the subjects that they are studying, and it would improvise their knowledge extensively. Secondly, the youngsters’ timetable is already full, and they do not have time to learn everyday skills. For instance, I remember when I was at school most of my time spent on subjects such as English, Mathematics, and Science than other services. Finally, teaching practical abilities at school is a waste of time that could be learned in the future.
	On the other hand, teaching useful proficiency at school is not required instead they can utilise it for their syllabus. Bank account maintenance is very simple and easy to learn in their future. For example, I was never taught this skill when I was studying at school but I could manage quite well by opening an account with the bank. There are numerous specialised shops available for repairing vehicles and it should be redundant for school kids. Moreover, teens are not very keen to exercise this kind of skills at school lever rather than trying for their future generation.
	In conclusion, I believe that more importance should be given the educational subjects instead of teaching other everyday assistances. The student career will deter when they try to focus on this kind of practical skills and it should be avoided for the bright future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1469-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-454-teacher-has-greater-influence-than-parents-in-the-development-of-child-s-intelligence",
Essay 940:
	There is too much debate about whether teachers or parents influence child development socially and mentally. While I agree with the idea that teachers play an indispensable role in child development, I believe that parents have a greater impact on children growing up too.
	On one hand, teachers are the backbone of the education system. By this I mean that, in most countries children begin to attend school from 5 years old and from this point they emerge from the small family and join the whole society and being part of it, with the presence of professional teacher this could be a huge development in term of social skills such as teamwork and sharing activities. Moreover, through different classes in mathematics and science, for instance, children can learn how to solve a complex problem in a short time and this is the most important thing for brain development and intelligence.  For illustration, it has been calculated that nearly 30% of the whole brain development takes place at this stage of our life.
	On the other hand, parents and particularly mothers, as the child stays most of their time with them, play an important constituent in the growth of the child mentality. As a matter of fact, the preschool stage is a crucial stage and children obtain and store vast amounts of information. Hence, in this period children create their own environment and personality. For instance, children copy their parents in their language and how they interact with each other. Moreover, families can boost their children inelegant and cognitive skills through video games, play, interactive discussion, advice etc. As a result, the crucial role of family is not forgettable.
	To conclude, as we have seen. There is no easy answer to this question. However, I tend to believe that both parents and teachers influence children social skills and mental development.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1467-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-453-giving-presents-as-an-important-way-to-show-care-to-family-and-friends",
Essay 941:
	Exchanging presents has been a longtime tradition embedded within human history. Although some believe that there are other methods to replace such practice, it is perceivable that giving gifts is still the most influential way to show one's love and care. This statement will be analysed in the following paragraphs, supported by relevant examples.
	Tangible presents can exist eternally and this thus can remind the giver of the gift for a long time. Although actions taken such as sharing meaningful words can be emotionally effective, they are expected to be evanescent as time elapses. Presents, however, can leave one with a solid memory of a particular person and his thoughts. In fact, as is the case with many loyal families' custom, they focus on sending out presents to their loved ones more than doing anything else so that their affinity can be remembered for generations.
	Practicality is another distinctive aspect that presents can offer. For example, my grandmother has been suffering from muscular pain for a long time. Although she would appreciate our effort to spend time with her to express our affection, giving her a massage machine could be more efficient. The present would not only show our care but also offer a solution to her lifetime health problem. Hence, it can be demonstrated that presents intensify one's sense of affinity by fulfilling dual purposes; showing one's love and giving what the person is in need of. This then clearly substantiate that gifts contain more meaningful terms than sharing endearment.  
	In conclusion, the aforementioned ideas evidently encapsulate the two reasons explaining how tangible presents can the most effective way to display someone's love.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1465-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-452-people-give-more-emphasize-on-outlook-and-spend-more-time-on",
Essay 942:
	At the present time, people are concerned about their appearance more than in the past. Throughout history, beauty valued very high. It is believed that human beings nowadays spending more time on their outward than their ancestors did. This will be shown by taking into account comparing past and present usage of cosmetics and plastic operation in our daily life.
	Firstly, usage of cosmetics was popular since the dawn of time and today's life it isn't an exception. For example, in the past people also applied a lot of cosmetics on their face to look more beautiful, despite that some of them were harmful or even dangerous for life. Nowadays we can see a similar situation, people using cosmetics in spite of that they don't really know what it contains. But in today's world, we have surgery, which can help us to dispose of from our outward shortcomings. As my example shows, there weren't any specific changes in usage but currently, we have more ways to make better our outward appearance.
	In addition to this, medicine also helps us to hide our shortcomings and one of them plastic surgery operation. Changing of God-given body can be really harmful to your health and even kill you because it has some defects which cause incurable diseases like cancer and papilotomia. Therefore, doctors don't recommend you change your body or face. It's obvious from my example that people ready to all kind of pain and harm only for looking good.
	Following the analysing at how people used cosmetics in the past and how they use it now, in my view, there was only little change. It has been proven that people ready to all risks just for the beautiful face.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1464-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-451-what-factors-contribute-to-a-good-movie",
Essay 943:
	Movies fascinatingly showcase diversified reflections of peoples' lives and encourage one to be part of a hypothetical world. Although it is ambiguous to define what a good movie is, it is generally accepted that a movie that can be understood and mesmerize viewers' attention contribute to establishing a praised movie. Thus, it is perceivable that a solid scenario and an outstanding acting capability by actors are pivotal qualities that popular movies possess. This statement will be analysed in the following paragraphs, supported by relevant examples.
	An understandable storyline that can appeal to the general public is essential to establishing a good movie. One can easily encounter incidences of leaving the cinema complaining about a movie because the story sidetracked or included obscure scenes. Movies are required to display stories that can be sympathised and agreed so that audiences are able to gain indirect life experiences. However, if scenarios are felt incomprehensible, it is then believed to have not left movie goers with any positive impression and fails to be considered a movie worth watching.
	In conclusion, the aforementioned ideas suggest some of aspects that help movies become successful, which can generally be applied to all types of movies.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1462-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-450-exposure-to-international-media-has-a-significant-impact-on-local-cultures",
Essay 944:
	It is certainly true that being exposed to foreign media which includes movies, TV and publications has significantly affected local cultures as evidently seen in my country, the Philippines. It greatly affected our local languages and family values.
	Exposure to international music, TV shows and magazines has caused a change to our local languages. By constantly listening for instance, to western songs and watching American TV series such Pretty Little Liars, people in my country have eventually adapted the European language or even an American accent. As a result, this adaptation could gradually lessen the use of our Tagalog language. However, it could also make us globally competitive especially when hardly looking for an employment internationally. As for my experience when I was looking for a nursing job in Melbourne, Australia, one of their hospitals' requirements is for me to be able to communicate English in advanced level.
	Also, constant exposure to foreign media has caused a considerable impact on family values. For instance, my country is a very conservative nation. Reserved people here strongly disregard sex before marriage, but because of foreign cultures regard this unacceptable notion as acceptable and obviously shown in American and western films, Filipinos tend to do so. This leads to the negative influence of my country's family culture.
	In conclusion, I think that there are benefits and drawbacks brought to local cultures by international media, but I cannot deny the fact that because of these foreign sources of information, I have learned a lot, most especially English language. So I certainly believe that there are more positive effects of these global media than the negative ones.
Essay 945:
	Media is a good carrier of knowledge and information. It saves time for the learner to acquire new science or even help him to create ideas. Also help in countries development, whenever a country mimics successful plans of other countries, like the United European organisation where the countries involved in this organisation exchange news of flourishment and high achievements. We can also see that people living in different countries watch same programs and read same magazines are able to get closer, however, far they are. They can also exchange languages and habits of different cultures, and easily understand each other. And though, somebody can go anywhere and meet with his best friend or even with his soul-mate where common thoughts meet.
	On the other hand, media has some disadvantages that we cannot avoid, and I believe that children are getting the greatest percent of loss there are some impolite scenes transferred to their pure minds, from where catalyses bad thoughts. In addition, nowadays, there are research studies that justify the opinion of most watched TV increases the percentage of stupidity and foolishness. It also does not give the children or teenagers to practice beneficial activities and be more productive to their society. One more bad consequence of media prevail is that it weakens the relations between the individual and family or friends. One is less able to communicate with people around him and share wonderful moments. There will be no good memories to accompany him in elderly and hard times.
	To sum up, we can conclude that media shows obvious change on a variety of cultures and generates new disciplinary of living ways. However, we should not go in deep with it and we should entertain it within the limit to avoid its drawbacks.
Essay 946:
	There is no doubt that today we are living in a global village where people all around the world listen to the same types of music, watch similar movies, television programmes and even many of us extends our interests to read books and magazines which were published in overseas. While some people have argued by these tendencies could destroy one country's culture and brings adverse effects on people lives, others oppose this notions completely. However, personally, I agree with the group of people who believe that its advantages outweigh its disadvantages for several reasons. In this essay, I will give some reasons to support my assertion.
	To begin with by looking at the advantages of these processes; firstly through television programmes, we could get a deeper knowledge of different cultures and diverse lifestyles. Secondly, if people spend the time to read books or to read magazines that were published on overseas then probably they would gain knowledge in a foreign language. Finally more we share our ideas and thoughts through media then more we understand each other. That will definitely help us to reduce the prejudice among nations.
	However, its disadvantages seem greater than its advantages. One is that nowadays people all around are influenced by the international media. Consequently, many of us are trying to imitate the lifestyles of other cultures that will lead to cultural erosion of a country. Another point is that our identities are being lost due to the over exposure to international media. For example in these days, people all around the world have been trying to wear the dresses and costumes of the characters on the television programmes. This means that a majority of world people are trying the same fashions and trends and ultimately we are losing our culture and unique identities.
	To conclude I would like to reiterate that international media definitely help us to reduce the prejudice among nations and help us to gain knowledge in different languages as well as in different cultures. However I believe that its merits outweigh by its demerits owing to the fact that it would bring significant amounts of threats to one country's culture and a threat to our identities, those factors are unavoidable aspects of our humanity.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1461-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-449-most-countries-want-to-improve-standard-of-living-through-economic-development",
Essay 947:
	Living in a high standard level is the ultimate goal of many people. All of us are doing our best to live in comfort and peace. Governments try to satisfy their citizens' needs and provide them with all means of happiness and advance. To do this the economy of should be improved.
Essay 948:
	Economic development is essential for any country because the economic condition of a country will leave a very heavy impact on the daily routines of the citizens of that country. The economic development is directly linked to the better living standards of the people of the country. If any country wants to provide a better living standard to the citizens and wants to provide essential needs of living (i.e. food, clothes and shelter) to every citizen, a country should be capable and have strong economic development.
	If economic development is up to the mark, the living standards would be improved automatically. Through stable economic conditions job opportunities will be created, circulation of money in the market will take place in a suitable manner. I think if any country puts all the focus to improve the standard of living through economic development, citizens of that country will have to work hard and have to spend most of their time in their work and as a result, the social value and social life of the people will cut off. Because economic stability comes in result of impressive hard work and one should sacrifice something in order to earn another thing.
	In conclusion, economic development is the most important part of a nation’s progress and it does not mean that the development will degrade the social values.
Essay 949:
	Over the last few decades, many countries are aggressively involved in improving the economic condition and uplifting the living standard of the people. Whereas, on the other hand, there are also people who believe that in the race of improving the living standard, people are neglecting the social values. I also believe that people nowadays are more concerned about possessing materialistic success which has overshadowed the need for social values.
Essay 950:
	It is perceived by most countries that by developing their economy, the living standard of their people could be improved, but there are those who believe that economic growth could result in loss of social values.
	It is certainly true that countries with developed economies have improved their people's lives because of their advanced standard of public services such as health and education. Improved health care can improve the quality of life through treating diseases and increasing people's life expectancy. Also, increased educational standards can give the population a greater diversity of skills and literacy. This enables greater opportunity and freedom. In my knowledge, I have learned that education is seen as an important development of welfare and happiness.
	However, while we can obviously see the benefits of a developed economy, there are other people who perceive that this could lead to losing of social values. It means that with higher economic growth, this may result in longer hours of work. Then working parents would not have enough quality time to spend with their children. Hence, children will tend to emulate their bad influence peers and eventually involve to an antisocial activity or juvenile delinquency, for instance, the unguided young teenagers, mainly African and Caribbean Americans in New York City in the 20th century.
	In conclusion, I certainly believe that through developing national economy, it will give people a better quality of life. Although it could affect families negatively, this would be just a little impact compared to the many benefits it could give to its society in terms of health and educational services.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1460-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-448-it-is-not-necessary-for-adults-to-receive-education-in-class",
Essay 951:
	Education is a continuous process and thrust for knowledge is everlasting. Adult education is a controversial issue and some groups of thoughts argue that adults can learn things by themselves and the common mentoring technique in the school is unnecessary for them. Even though classroom learning has its own advantages, I believe the self-study is more beneficial for adults.
	Obviously, ‘internal motivation and hard working’ is the core in all success stories. Therefore a highly motivated person can learn alone by utilising the advanced technologies. For illustration, online education is a newer trend and even someone working can attend certification course through the Internet. In addition, most of the companies are offering continuing education as part of their working schedules. So workers can improve their knowledge by this without attending regular classroom courses. Furthermore, for an adult, it is cumbersome to get back to a student life in most of the cases. The advancement in technology has made it possible to learn from home and adults do not need teachers to look after their behaviours or discipline them to study. It is a well-known fact that self-learning is the best learning and this is quite applicable for grown up people.  So supporters of this view believe that for grown up people classroom learning is unnecessary and a waste of time.
	On the other hand, some people believe that education is meaningful only by regular classroom mentoring. Self-motivation is sometimes ineffective and necessitates the teachers for evaluating and guiding them. Moreover, they believe that adult life is different from children because of the internal as well as the external factors affecting their learning process. For instance, adult life is complicated with a lot of responsibilities and tensions. Therefore continuous motivation by an external mentor is inevitable. Online education programs and other continuing career development programs often lack this opportunity and hence this group of people believes that classroom education is the best option for adults.
	Put everything into consideration both these methods have their own advantages. However, I think that a highly motivated individual can gain knowledge by self-learning and for such adults, self-learning is a far better choice than attending formal educational institutes.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1459-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-447-pollution-and-other-environmental-problems-are-resulting-from",
Essay 952:
	Environmental problems and pollutions are often considered to be the direct result of a country’s development. Industrialisation, growing number of factories, people’s capability of purchasing more cars and electronic device etc. are often related to the economic condition and growth of a nation. However, I do not agree that pollution and other environmental problems are caused only because of the economic growth of a country and that this cannot be avoided.
	First, it does not take an expert to understand that pollution and environmental problems are more prominent in poor countries than that of rich countries. Air, sound and water pollutions in countries like India and Bangladesh are far dangerous than that of developed countries like Australia, Canada and the UK. Furthermore, the number of factories does not represent the amount of pollution it causes. For instance, recent researches have made it clear that only a few garments factories in a country like Bangladesh cause far more damage to the air and water resources than hundreds of bigger industries do in the United States.
	Second, economic development does not mean that a country will have industries and factories all over the country. Proper planning and inspection from the government can ensure the minimal emission of gas and other toxic elements into the water and air. So even if the industrialisation is imminent for the development of a country, it does not mean that we will have no way to minimise the pollution and environmental issues. For instance, industrialisation does not cause as much deforestation as it is caused by human greed and lack of inspection and law in many countries.
	Finally, pollution is a global issue and proper law and enforcement of laws can reduce it to a great extent. We cannot stop the natural causes of pollution but the greater percentages of environmental pollutions are caused by the human actions. We should educate people, encourage them and enforce strict laws to save our environment while development of a country has nothing to do with the rampant pollution we can see nowadays in many cities.
	In conclusion, I would agree that development and industrialisation affect the environment negatively to some extent but this is not the prime factor in polluting our environment. We still have time and lot of options to reduce the pollutions and environmental problems to make the world a better place for the future generation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1458-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-446-competitiveness-is-a-positive-quality-for-people-in-most-societies",
Essay 953:
	The world in which we are living has many inventions and the modern society is the cumulative contributions of many great individuals. One of the reasons for the progress of the modern world is the competitive nature human has with others. In my opinion without competition speed of nation building will be slow. Although the competitive environment is the need of modern era, it is jeopardising the personal life of individuals in many cases.
	Healthy competition is present in every walk of life. It is our inherent nature. Toddlers who have never been taught to compete would do it naturally to possess some toys with other toddlers. School going children study hard to win the top positions in the class, this behaviour improves their learning capability. People love to enjoy sports but improvement in skill is there when your opponent is more competent. Engineers build roads and Malls up to utmost capabilities but the buyers always seek a company with the lowest cost and modern and unique architecture. Consumers want to buy quality products but at lowest rates.
	On the other hand, a competitive behaviour of the society has paralysed the social life of individuals. People pay more attention to their future than the life they are leading. Youth is sacrificing their enjoyment for the sake of career. I suggest the mixture of two extremes is a very balanced option. I believe balanced life in all discipline of life can bring happiness in the societies. Individuals should work hard to achieve their goal but not at the cost of their sleep, health and family life.
	In short, there are cones and pros to competition with other individuals. We should compete with individuals, professionals, nation and keep in mind that humans need love, attention and rest. I believe that positive competition should be encouraged while negative one should be discarded from our life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1457-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-445-the-government-should-control-the-amount-of-violence-in-films-and-on-television",
Essay 954:
	The society in which we are living has growing trend to watch movies and television programs. People seek enjoyment and relaxation by observing electronic media. In my opinion, Government should check the level of violence in movies and other electronic media programs because every scene puts some imprints in the brain. These pictures stay in memories and give impact on personality.
	Violence has multiple impacts on human psychology. Kids choose to get guns and pistols in the form of toys after watching violence on media screen. Some young boys seek pleasure by copying this sort of crimes in real life being impressed by their heroes. Middle aged ladies become frightened while thinking of their family members living in this society that is having an unusual show of violent episodes. Old guys become depressed after observing brutal clips on the cinema screen.
	On the other hand, some portion of viewers has a propensity to enjoy and relaxation after seeing episodes of thrill and war. Clips without violence are not palatable to them.  The majority of these people are mature enough, they don’t copy this stuff in their real life. They watch the movies, make their brain relaxed and then forget the events.
	In short, Government should make strict policy to control the activity of media. Violent episodes may be there but only for the sake of the thrill. The lesson of the story should be very constructive and informative.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1456-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-444-the-only-way-to-improve-the-safety-on-our-own-road-is-to-have-stricter-punishment",
Essay 955:
	In my opinion, one of the major causes of road accidents is the violation of traffic rules. The best way to keep the drivers to remain law obedient is to give them punishment for offensive driving and for breaking the traffic rules. According to me, the punishment must be very proportional to the mistake made.
	Life is very precious and many people die annually in traffic accidents and much more get severely injured. To avoid traffic accidents, the law must be very strict and vibrant. There are many scenarios of unlawfully driving. Young drivers seek pleasure with very high-speed driving. Some bike riders get enjoyment while driving on one wheel. Some drivers think that wearing the seat belt is putting a burden on their body. Few people even drive while they are drunk and they lose the good control on wheel and pedals. The only way to stop this lawlessness is to award the punishment. Punishment may be in the form of money, imprisonment, confiscation of licence, making the insurance high.
	There are wide varieties of offenders; some do it for the sake of thrills and others due to human error and negligence. I believe that when there is an element of human error, a warning is enough. If we impose a heavy fine for minor human errors then people will drive with anxiety and ultimately will lose confidence on wheels. My personal opinion is to educate the people before issuance of the licence. In temporary licensure period, drivers will learn about rules and regulation of roads, the negative effect of alcohol in driving, maintenance of the vehicle, own health, road safety etc. When someone will know about every bit of law and keeping in mind the consequences of violation then there will be least chances of offending the law and jeopardising of life.
	Life is very precious and state should frame every rule possible for the provision of ultimate security to road users. Firstly drivers should be educated then given a warning for minor human errors and lastly strict punishment for violation of rules.
Essay 956:
	On the one hand, it is true that having a stricter punishment and increasing the penalties for irresponsible drivers would reduce traffic accidents and improve road safety. For example, it is a fact that using a mobile phone while driving a car is a dangerous act. However, due to the light punishment, many people still use the phone while driving. Should the authority change the punishment into a heavier one, then people will consider twice before they use the phone while driving. Besides, violation of any traffic rule can lead to a severe accident and if the punishment is made a stern, people would likely obey them.
	On the other hand, there is another method that the government could use in improving road safety besides having a stricter punishment. The government could make a campaign about safety driving through various media which would show the effect of careless driving. For instance, the government could make a safety video about road safety and upload it in social media since the message will be effectively spread in this kind of media. As more people are watching these videos, it is hoped that drivers will have a clearer view of safety driving.
	In conclusion, to a certain extent, I agree that having a stricter punishment would improve road safety. But I also believe that it should also be supported with other ways, and one of them is by giving audio-visual shows about safety driving.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1455-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-443-sending-criminals-to-prison-is-not-the-best-method-of-dealing-with-them",
Essay 957:
	It is a common issue to cope with wrongdoers in society and how to redesign the existing prison system is argued by several groups of people. Some people suggest that we may provide training and work for them to adjust their behaviour and I partially agree with it.
	First of all, it is a positive method to encourage wrongdoers and train them to live in normal life. Also, it will stimulate their ability and mind to rehabilitate and even adjust their attitude. In this case, a friendly environment is well set and it may wholly affect their lives for a long time. Second, society may take advantage of the period of training and studying which may result in reducing the rate of crime committing. Education is the root cause of such problems and that will be a wonderful chance to deal with it.
	However, this policy may not have benefits on the convicts who had committed a serious and unforgivable crime. The convicts who are in jail and taken away from their basic human right deserve their sin. And they are not capable of any treatment and scheme like these which are seen as enjoyment to taxpayers or even a victim. With such concern, I suggest that it should be planned with a clear level of crime system to evaluate their crime. Thus, different levels will give degrees of tasks and works and also eliminate citizens' doubt and worry.
	In conclusion, it is a controversial issue to consider a new and simple change of existing prison system. In my opinion, given the level crime of the system and apply to the scheme, it will be better and has positive and certain influence in both society and wrongdoers.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1454-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-442-people-can-perform-everyday-tasks-without-meeting-other-people",
Essay 958:
	Nowadays, with the advancement of modern technology people can complete their various daily needs through the Internet and mobile phones without direct interaction with people. This phenomenon has both positive as well as negative impacts on individual and the society and this essay is going to discuss these effects.
	Obviously, technology ensures a productive life and has made tasks quicker and easier than ever before. We live in a hectic world and the ever growing competition in workplaces and academic institutes bound us to find out shortcuts and easier ways to complete our daily tasks. Technological advancements in our life save our valuable time and energy. For instance, people these days can pay the bills and purchase items through Internet at their own residence without commuting to anywhere. They can do banking from home, can get the advice of a doctor through phone, can book a ticket online, get professional advice via the internet and the list goes on and on. Thus the need to go out and talking with people face-to-face has greatly reduced. This has a tremendous positive effect in personal life as it allows us to have more time to spend with our family and friends.   
	In addition, society also benefits from modern technology. To illustrate, people can do their tasks from home and that in turn reduce the number of private cars on the streets. Fewer traffic jams and less pollution will make the cities better places to live in.
	In contrast, there are some negative impacts of this trend as well. The interaction between human being has been reduced and this lead to a materialist life. Consequently, family relationship is deteriorating in some cases as people are becoming more dependent on technologies. Sedentary lifestyles lead us to have various diseases and the society will need to take the burden of more obese people. In addition, it is a burden to the society that technology is many places is increasing the unemployment rates as computers and other technologies are reducing the need for the workforce. As a result crime rate will shoot up. All in all, easiness in daily life has some disadvantages to the society and the individual.
	In conclusion, performing the routine tasks easily and quickly from home with the help of technology brings a lot of benefits and people can save their important time and energy. However, this trend has some negative impacts on both the society and the people that we should be aware of.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1453-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-441-many-students-have-to-study-subjects-which-they-do-not-like",
Essay 959:
	Education is such a possession which never lets the possessor down. It does pay back in some way or the other. It is due to this reason that it is kept at a very high pedestal and only contributes to the widening of the horizon of the possessor. Due to this firm fact, it can be said that education earned by studying any kind of subjects is never ever a waste of time. It only adds up to the total personality of an individual and makes him a matured, understanding and a complete human being.
	However, there are other schools of thoughts who are of the view that the pupils must not be taught the subjects in which they have no interest in. According to their belief, this only contributes towards the wastage of time. They believe in the theory that the students must be made to study the subjects which are liked by the students.
	Unfortunately, the followers of the second school of thought invariably tend to forget the fact that the thought process of a student is too narrow, too limited due to the immaturity level where the student tends to stand at such a tender age. The mind of a student is just like a clay which can be moulded in either way. In such a scenario, if the child is given the freedom to study the subjects according to their liking, the changes of a tender mind to get lost in the world of fantasy would lead the nation towards a horrific and unpleasant future.
	The mind of a student is as holy as Bible, as sacred as temple and if such a mind is guided in the right direction, by making him understand the potential of education possessed (by studying even the subjects which they do not like), the future of not only the student but the nation also shines. It is only education which encourages mankind to labour in present in order to enjoy the fruits in future.
	In a recent interview a prospective candidate, who had applied for the immigration to a country, did share his experience where the subjects which he had no interest in studying did contribute and acted as a saviour for him to gather the ‘points’ for the educational qualifications. The article in the fortnightly published magazine, The Immigrants, further discussed his getting successful in achieving his goal due to the accrual of those ‘points’ which he got due to such education.
	In the end, I opine in favour of studying any kind of subjects because it is the education which is dearer than the fine opals, more precious than Emeralds and places a person above all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1452-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-440-nowadays-for-many-people-the-internet-is-replacing-regular-books",
Essay 960:
	The contemporary society is progressed pursuant to the changes that computers generate for citizens. One of the new trends it has created is the replacement of regular books with digitally printed counterparts. The following paragraphs will thus address some prospective outcomes that the publishing industry will encounter consequent to this situation and illustrate the writer's personal opinion.
	It is expected that the concept of ordinary books will not completely collapse but its popularity will hinder significantly in the future. In fact, as is already case with the modern world, more people are choosing to buy E-books over tangible books. It is firstly much easier to be stored since one computer can hold thousands of virtual books. Secondly, the absence of distributional and publishing fees involved in making digital prints enable the selling price to be lower. Therefore, the convenient and cost-efficient aspects that digital books possess will eventually attract more users in the close future while leaving the pre-existing book industry in threat.
	Personally, it is felt that the results of the above-mentioned prediction will preclude people from acknowledging the value of tangible books. For regular books, there is a limited labour capacity to supply the desired number of items to readers. This often requires them to wait for a few weeks or even months to obtain what they want to read. Although the wait can be dreadful, such a time span intensifies their appreciation towards the author and his hard work. However, with E-books which can be readily duplicated simply by copying and pasting, is unlikely to ever allow people to know how precious a book can be.
	In conclusion, the aforementioned ideas clearly demonstrate how the ordinary book industry will be influenced by its counterparts produced online, and what the writer thinks of this trend.
Essay 961:
	Advancements in technology like the Internet have revolutionised our lives and we are getting more adapted to online services every day. Printed books are now being replaced with digital content which has opened an entirely new domain for its readers. This essay will analyse future of publishing industry and will provide an opinion after presenting arguments.
	Online bookstores serve as an alternative to ordinary books which is laudable as this allows readers to have access to material whenever and where do want. This increasing trend will reduce the significance of traditional libraries that are known to host hundred and thousands of books. Another benefit of e-books is that they are easy to modify, edit and one can make countless copies of the material.
	Digital books are easier to store and its availability is not affected due to distribution delays encountered after publishing and printing printed books. Electronic book repositories will not result in the collapse of publishing industry of physical books, but its popularity will be hindered significantly. Moreover, the price of the e-book is much lower than the normal book.
	Furthermore, it will be possible to distribute them at large scale through online stores like Amazon and O'Reilly. In past, people have to wait for months before they get their hand on their favourite book. More people will adapt to e-books because they cannot be damaged or misplaced and its appreciators don't have to worry about their stacking or maintenance.
	To conclude, the aforementioned arguments predict the future of e-books. In my opinion, this trend is plausible and it will turn libraries into online kiosks in near future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1449-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-439-some-people-believe-that-latest-computers-and-technologies-are-more-convenient",
Essay 962:
	With the increasing demand on making computers to be more convenient, engineers continuously innovate to create better ones. Despite this, some people find the latest computers harder to use compared with previous ones. Nevertheless, most people find the newest IT products are more convenient though.
	Some people are not used to the new products offered by IT companies. People who work with Windows XP for years will find Windows 8 uncanny with its new Apps System and the way on how a program is installed. On the other hand, most people, especially young people, quickly adapt to the change of the features. We can see when Mac Book was introduced, most of the young customers did not find it difficult to use, although they used Windows for years.
	In addition, most of the people understand that new features are meant to make information processing easier. When Skype was released, people rushed to download and learn how to use it; it is the best feature to do cam chats. Unfortunately, the others fail to understand the need of learning features which obviously leads to easier usage. It is because of their lack of curiosity of those, hence, they feel unable to understand the way those are used.
	Are recent computers harder or easier to use? In conclusion, it depends on each person's ability and interest to learn new features offered by IT companies. However, judging on the large proportion of those who find it easy to use recent computers, those who find it difficult to use can use the computers easily if they have great interest to learn.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1446-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-438-parents-and-teachers-make-many-rules-for-children-to-encourage-good-behaviour",
Essay 963:
	To teach children good behaviours, respect for elders and dealing with society effectively teachers and parents impose so many rules. Since childhood we have grown up with many don'ts and do's which directly and indirectly taught us many lessons of life and made our life easy, comfortable and successful.
	As a rule, parents define timetables of all the activities to be done in a day which is called good habits like getting up early morning, staying clean, having food in time, respecting elders, loving youngers, not to trouble anyone and so on. If a child follows these rules would greatly benefit in future life like having a healthy life, being amiable and punctual, caring others etc. The rule means a protection shield from possible harms. Out of their experience of their life, our elders ask us to follow the rules and stop us if we are going towards the wrong path.
	Moreover, these rules and punctuality would protect us from so many bad habits and keep us alert to choose right friends, become a good citizen and being able to take responsibilities.
	In another way, if the children who are always under control and pressure of their parent's strict rules they face another challenge of life. For example, those children will be less confident, poor in decision-making skills and would not be able to lead others. They take the time to mingle with society and hesitate to interact with anyone. They look for their elders always to show them the path and lead them. As a result, they would not be able to face the real world and other people can take advantages of that because they do not have the sensibility to distinguish between right and wrong sometimes.
	Hence I agree there should be certain rules to make children learn good things but we should not crush their emotions and feelings. It's parents and teachers’ responsibility to teach them why they have to follow the rules and how few things are not good for them. Sometimes they are needed to be given a chance to learn and face the society all by their own so that they should be free and alert to accept challenges, deal those issues and come up with a solution. This attitude and freedom will lead children to become better and stronger persons.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1445-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-437-boys-and-girls-benefit-more-from-attending-mixed-school",
Essay 964:
	Different individuals have their own opinion about the type of schools for the young people. Some believe that having a single-sex educational institution benefits the student's professional development while others believe that they should be taught in co-educational schools. In this essay, both the viewpoints will be critiqued before reaching the reasoned conclusion.
	On the one hand, there are the groups of people who consider that the girls and the boys should learn in mixed sex schools. The main reason for this belief is that these schools are the representatives of the real life in which men and women have to stay together. In other words, these institutions concentrate on developing children's social skills for the better adult life. Thus, it is apparent that the students getting qualified from such schools can easily adjust in the actual world, resulting in a peaceful life.
	On the other hand, some individuals feel that the pupils passed out of the single-sex schools have greater chances of a successful career. They believe this because according to them studying with the same gender reduces the distractions and helps them to concentrate more on studies. Furthermore, the boys and the girls may have different needs and ways of learning which can be satisfied in the schools with same-sex students. Therefore, the theory that such learners progress more in their profession is difficult to debunk.
	In conclusion, although these students have a prosperous work life, they can lack the social skills. Hence, it is proved that people should prefer admitting their kids in the mixed sex schools for their personal as well as professional growth. It is expected that the government will try to increase the number of such schools in the country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1444-some-people-think-teenage-ages-the-happiest-times",
Essay 965:
	Different individuals have their own opinion about the happiest phase in the human's life. According to one camp, college years are the cheeriest times in the individual's life, while according to the other camp, people are gladder when they are fully grown-up. In this essay, both the outlooks will be critiqued before reaching the reasoned conclusion.
	On the one hand, some people feel that adolescent life is joyful than the matured. The reason for believing this is that the youths do not have any duties and can live a carefree life. In other words, no one is actually dependent on them and thereby, they can spend most of the time performing the task they enjoy the most. Thus, it is apparent that they can feel satisfied with whatever they do and in turn, will always live a happy life.
	On the other hand, there are groups of individuals who consider adulthood as the most blissful phase of the life. The people advocate such concept because they feel that a person can experience happiness only when they are able to satisfy other's needs. This means that for such people definition of happiness is being able to fulfil their responsibilities and the desires of their closed ones. Therefore, the theory of grown-ups with duties being the most contented living creatures is difficult to debunk.
	In conclusion, although having no responsibilities can help people to stay happy, but knowing that they are able to satisfy their relatives requirements brings more happiness. Thus, it is seen that older people are happier than the young people.
Essay 966:
	People always grow up and the way of nature that they will turn from a baby to an older people. Many things can happen around the period of growth. Some people hope that they remain a teenager forever but the other people like to be adults. It depends on the people and the happiness can be achieved in both ages.
	Firstly, being the teenagers makes them free and they do not think about life’s complexity to a great deal. For example, the girls and boys in the school prefer to think about their lesson than having a job and taking family responsibilities. They think this way because they assume that they have their parents who can take care of the family and finance their study for the school. Their responsibilities are to study hard so they can pass the exam with the highest score. Usually, they meet their first love in school that makes them happy. They do not think about how to earn money, they dream, try to do live life with fewer responsibilities and complexities.
	Secondly, becoming an adult is very interesting. An adult usually has bigger chance to try something than the teenager such as having an identity card, driving license, credit card, freedom of spending and having a great job. They can manage their own time to do that they want or they can make a decision where they face the problem. They can get much money from their job so they can spend it to buy things that they need. They also travel to different tourist places and spend their time with other people that they care about.
	In conclusion, being happy as a teenager or an adult depends on the individuals and both ages brings happiness of it is carefully chosen. When they can enjoy their life, they can be happy and being happy is a mental state mostly and can be achieved in both the periods of life.
Essay 967:
	Adolescent period is argued as the most enjoyable by some people, whereas others are of opinion that being adults makes us happier. The bone of contention here is which period of life brings more happiness to the masses. This essay will discuss the perception of the meaning of happiness by both age groups and finally my opinion.
	At the outset, it is believed that there are several reasons for a teenager to be happy; firstly there is no millstone around their neck like family, children, financial issues, work pressure and so on. So they could feel the fresh air, stay motivated, energetic and optimistic. Moreover, they would be able to manage their time properly because they would be taken care of by their parents. This naturally makes them to have no reasons to worry about, so they might find happiness in whatever they do.
	However, there is an even more defined joy while we are adults. It is argued that bringing happiness to others makes us happy, so doing our duties perfectly to our family, children and society would definitely yield a positive effect.Though the pressure due to the job, earning, saving have to be overcome, it should be accepted that our maturity to think lucidly and plan properly help us to manage these issues in a facile manner. More we take responsibilities the more we feel self-satisfied by taking care of everyone's need in a family.
	In a nutshell, Even though individuals are more thrilled during their teenage, the real mirth sprouts out when they get completely moulded as an adult. Enjoying everything after a deeper introspection about life is closer to the heart than the small happiness of childhood days. So, I strongly believe that adulthood is happier than the adolescence.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1443-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-435-development-in-technology-causes-environmental-problems",
Essay 968:
	People have argued about the negative effect of technology on the environment. A group of people think that rather than following the development of technology, we should have a simpler way of life. However, others disagree as they believe that technology could address environmental issues.
	On the one hand, it is undeniable that the rapid development of technology has caused some environmental problems.  Many inventions are beneficial for human beings, but they have a catastrophic effect on the environment. For example, the invention of cars that use fossil fuel has caused some serious effect on the world. The cars produce carbon monoxide which is not only dangerous for living creatures, but it also becomes the main cause of global warming. Therefore, some people believe that we should change our lifestyle into a simpler one. One of the ways is by using a friendly environmental transportation such as using a bicycle to commute. The bicycle is not only safe for the environment, but it could also be used as a way of exercise.
	On the other hand, other people believe that technology could be used as a way to resolve environmental problems. As we can see that one of the biggest threat to the earth’s civilisation is the usage of the plastic bag. The waste of plastic bags has become a big issue, as they could only be composed for about 100 years.  However, with the new technology, scientists have found a new way of producing plastic bags. With the new formula, plastic bags could be recycled; therefore it would resolve one of the environmental issues.
	In my opinion, I do believe that technology is beneficial for human beings if we used it wisely and proportionately. I personally believe that research for new technology should be continued, as we need to have improvements in life, but the government should review and monitor this research properly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1442-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-434-crime-is-a-problem-all-over-the-world-and-there-is-nothing-that-can-be-done-to-prevent-it",
Essay 969:
	It is true that the rate of crime has far considerably boomed in many parts of the globe. All age groups’ lives have negatively been affected by this inflation, and I think overpopulation, immigration, and employment issues are prominent factors behind it. To tackle them, some important solutions are needed to be implemented by governments and by the society. I agree that the crime rate in the world has increased but I also believe that this can be tackled.
	Obviously, the rate of offence has inclined far dramatically since last decades. One important reason behind it is that expansion of cities and increasing density of people have not been in parallel. Escalation the rate of rage among juveniles, armed robberies, and rape are three obvious examples that unfortunately police and other security authorities have not been successful in controlling them. Another reason is the occupation. Sadly, the number of jobless individuals has fundamentally increased globally. The economy recession occurred in 2008, caused the number of jobless people raised far significantly. For example, only in the USA, this rate reached from 5% to over 10%, causing more citizens to have insufficient income; therefore, Americans committed more money crimes and tax frauds. Lastly, immigration has been another leading reason behind it. Moving and living in other developed countries, immigrants have committed more violations because they have faced more financial problems, and they intentionally or unintentionally crossed the lines, which have been extremely important for the local government.
	To address this problem, some proactive actions must be considered by administrations across the world. One is controlling the population, especially in central cities. Restricting those rural people deciding to move into urban areas, the rate of crime will become more controllable. In particular, in Tehran, the living cost was dramatically pulled up as the government decided to avoid people living in the suburb to move into Tehran. This led the state being able to control better violators, according to a local press report. Moreover, governments must open better job opportunities for job seekers. Definitely, had the U.S authorities valued more the unemployed citizens, the rate of vandalism would have been declined far significantly. And last but not least, immigrants must be valued more. Instead of uncontrollably increasing their numbers, the host country must raise the needed budget for their training, accommodation, and create more job opportunity.
	To sum up, crime rates have escalated on the Earth. To prohibit them, I personally believe that governments of countries must improve job positions for both local residents and immigrants, and controlling of the population in cities must be a leading priority.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1441-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-433-individual-greed-and-selfishness-has-been-the-basis-of-the-modern-society",
Essay 970:
	Today, luxury lifestyle has affected humans’ living conditions fundamentally. While in the past traditional rules were a major base for many communities, now people consider money as a priority. Some believe that our ancestors had a better living situation, and I firmly agree with them.
	Undeniably, now personal factors have become the first choice for many people living across the world. One obvious example is that young have less respect for elders. Thinking solely the benefits, juveniles value less their parents’ attitudes compared to the past. For instance, to select their marriage partner, the former youth considered their parents’ opinions more than now, whereas now they have become more selfish and do not value their parents’ experience. On the other side, parents have become greedy too.
	Clearly, they financially backed up their children before more than now; however, many over 65 people always prefer to have more saving instead of helping their children. As a prime example, my grandfather supported my mother’s education tuition, but she has not paid any cent for my education even she knew I had many problems to pay it.
	From my perspective, our ancestors had a better living condition. One important reason behind it is that they were more supportive to each other.  Admittedly, traditional family structure assisted all age groups to have a better feeling about life. Adolescents need to be supported by their adults during their study, and seniors received more aids from their offspring. Another one is that communities could adapt themselves to some unexpected critical conditions. In this case, had not European poor citizens been supported by the rich after World War II, their homes would not have been recovered so fast.
	In conclusion, developing of technology, humans have the lacking consideration to others. I personally believe that the former societies had safer lifestyles because all age groups were more supportive to each other, during critical conditions or any stage of life.
Essay 971:
	Undeniably, modernization has tremendously affected the people’s lifestyles in our contemporary world. Making decision alone, humans do not value others’ opinions, although this method of living might have had some positive influences. I personally think that its advantages have been less notable than the traditional one.
	Now, many individuals prefer to act solely than the past, leading them to succeed in their life more than before. One important benefit is that they have a better independent lifestyle. The more they live without their parents’ assistance, the more they feel more confidence. This means, selfishness has led young to have more independence when it comes to the selection of his or her study subject, while they were more under control of their parents in this matter before. In addition, this has led citizens to become more successful in their business. Craving to save more money, businesspersons compete more with their rivals and produce more highly quality products. For instance, the owner of Apple, a well-known cell phone company in the USA, has had a significant prosperous business by 2014. To compete with other rivals, he decided to raise its profit by producing of watch cell phones and surpassed other rivals. As a result, his greedy decision has led people to have a different cell phone, and the owner earned more profit.
	In contrast, considering traditions can be more helpful in any aspect of life, and I agree with this view. One important factor is that the rate of crime can be decreased far dramatically. Unfortunately, to make more profit, individuals follow rules less than before, and fraud rates have more considerably pulled up. However, had they considered the moral aspects being valued in the past, they would not have crossed the line. Another factor is that emotionally people will have a better supportive condition. Clearly, traditions induce citizens to support their relatives or friends. For example, a bankrupted retailer might be helped by his family before due to the traditions people had in the past, while this has remarkably become forgotten.
	In conclusion, humans have become less dependent on their family and community. I personally believe that the benefits earned by this method of living have become less obvious than the traditional one our ancestors had. I personally believe that not only the rate of violence will decrease, but people will be backed up by each other emotionally.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1440-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-432-planners-tend-to-arrange-shops-schools-offices-and-homes-in-specific-areas",
Essay 972:
	Today, many city developers always try to consider each part of the city for individual purpose. While some locations might be appropriate for education, the other one can be suitable to be residential areas. I personally agree with this method, although it might have had some drawbacks.
	On the one hand, considering this plan by the city planners can have some negative consequences. One is that it can enhance traffic congestion inside of cities. For instance, those students living in peripheral areas have to travel several kilometres each day to reach their school, being mainly constructed in the central of cities; therefore, the number of commuters may escalate dramatically. Another reason behind it is that people living in rural areas have less access to appropriate facilities. For example, if they like to purchase furniture for their home, they cannot find them in the small retailers near their home. They have to spend hundreds of dollars for their transportation, while dwellers living in sprawling cities have a better access to these items.
	On the other hand, having this plan in urban areas, I believe that it will avoid overpopulation in specific locations. One important factor is that the more factories are moved to suburb areas, the more workers prefer to live near them, instead of living in the central of cities. In particular, in Tehran, the capital city of Iran, had not the government permitted large companies to have a function in the centre, more citizens would have moved to live in the countryside, leading them to faceless the overpopulation problems. Furthermore, it can decrease the level of pollution in cities. Obviously, the more shops or offices operate in cities, the more they pollute the environment. As a result, in many countries, governments have considered specific regions for these markets. In this case, in Vancouver, the government of BC has considered a huge place for shops near the airport, which is located outside of the metropolitan zone. This will reduce the pollution caused by these businesses far significantly.
	In conclusion, although some may agree that each region should not be allocated for specific purposes, I completely agree with it. This not only can reduce the density of population but the amount of pollution in the central areas of urban.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1439-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-431-tourism-is-an-excellent-way-to-develop-a-country",
Essay 973:
	In general, it is a ubiquitous notion that almost the entire world’s poor live in countries where tourism is a growing industry. Despite this factor, tourism does not benefit the poorest. There are some beneficial ways that aid to generate the income by tourism in order to ameliorate the people’s lifestyle without annihilating traditional cultures. In this essay, I will cite several points as the reasons of this issue and will pursue to give some fitting solutions.
	One of the basic causes of this problem is that the tourism economics is not being developed in a right way. The certain organisations get lofty money from tourism and invest the gained money to this business activity again. Subsequently, the available process persists protractedly. Hence, the poor cannot take advantage of it and their difficult life condition stays at its level. As the impeccable solution to this problem is that the government should impose the rule about creating the supplementary stock for poor people.
	Another reason is forming from the low prices. Many tourists tend to come to the countries where the costs are cheaper. As an implication, the government cannot obtain the desirable amount of money and is obliged to soar the taxes. In this circumstance, poor people’s dwelling deteriorates gradually. In addition, the numerous of tourist can contribute to altering persons’ cultures and it can be a much bigger inevitable problem. As a solution for these issues is that the government must increase the costs in terms of tourism economics and decline the local people’s taxes. This remedy can balance both the harm and income of State easily.
	Taking all things into account, there are manifold reasons for this problem. However, for every hard issue, there is one solution at least.
Essay 974:
	It is true that tourists have had tremendous impacts on the host countries’ advancements. Although its negative influences cannot be discarded, I agree that its advantages are remarkably higher.
	On the one hand, travellers visiting a country may ruin the environment and cultural values of local residents. One of the most important impacts of tourism is pollution. This means, the more visitors travel and visit one region, the more they pollute the surroundings. The amount of disposals and carbon dioxide are fundamentally increased as more visitors travel a region, destroying the natural habitat. In addition, their habits can be against the local residents’ rules. As a prime example, in Emirate, which is an Arab Islamic country in the Middle East, local people may not tolerate a US traveller wearing a bikini in the public, whereas this clothing is not against cultural values of Americans. As a result, tourist resorts are negatively affected by these two obvious consequences.
	On the other hand, definitely this industry has two important influences on the host country, and I believe that despite having some negative impressions, its benefits are far greater. One important reason behind it is that this industry can improve job opportunity for the local inhabitants. Cleary, the more visitors travel to a specific region, the more hotels, restaurants, and shopping centres will be constructed, and more local citizens will find better job positions. For instance, In Kish Island, located in the South of Iran, as the government allowed there to become an open trade place for foreign traders, and more local people have been finding more job opportunities. Another important positive effect is that countries can expose their culture to other nations. In particular, had not Greece become a tourist attraction for Europeans, they would not have known about its historical places and culture.
	Since there are tremendous benefits of expansion and popularity of tourism, government and tourism industries can focus on reducing the negative effects by taking many initiatives. The awareness among the visiting tourists could easily be established by giving proper guidance and that would save the environment for getting polluted. The host country should engage more system and manpower to keep the places clean and should impose fine if someone found to violate the rules. The influence of foreign culture among the mass population is another concern that could be tracked by imposing some plausible rules for the visiting tourists. 
	To sum up, governments of countries can assess the positive and negative influences of tourism by looking at cultural, environmental, and vocational aspects. From my perspective, visiting more tourists, local residents can find not only better job positions, but their culture will become more recognisable to other nations. Reducing the bad effects of tourism is another concern that the government and people of the host country can easily control.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1437-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-430-the-range-of-technology-available-to-individuals-today-is-increasing-the-gap",
Essay 975:
	Today, modernization has revolutionised humans’ lifestyles fundamentally. Industrialisation has made our world a better place for living, although some individuals believe that this has been more useful to more affluent citizens. From my perspective, these advancements have led all humans to live better, even the deprived ones.
	On the one hand, those who believe that by the development of technology, the rich have gained more beneficiaries have their own reasons. One is that luxury lifestyle has become more popular globally. The more luxury goods are produced by different companies, the more well-to-do citizens have more choices to purchase more variety of magnificent items. For instance, in 2015, Apple, a well-known electronic corporation in the USA, has produced a new version of Apple cell phone as size as a watch with the price of over $20000. Therefore, this watch will be affordable to those having tremendous saving. In addition, in trading, richer countries have a better access to the latest technology of e-commerce, while the poor ones, higher expenditure avoids them to compete with the former and the globalisation has increased the gap between the developed and underdeveloped nations.
	On the other hand, I personally agree with those believing that modernization has had more positive influences on both rich and poor people. One important impact is that all nations have a better access to more highly developed health system. For example, even in remote areas of Africa, MRI is used for diagnosing of diseases, and its technology can be compared to the one which is being used in the USA. In addition, travelling facilities have been altered dramatically. Had not aviation technology been developed so fast, less general people would have used low-cost airlines. In the past, only the rich could pay the ticket of an airplane, but now even a simple worker and his family can afford the fee of a flight annually.
	In conclusion, some may believe that the more the technology develops, the more wealthy citizens have better living conditions. However, I personally agree that this can influence the level of accessing to medical services and travelling facilities, and the poor’s lifestyles have been and will be improved far significantly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1436-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-429-some-people-think-if-students-are-afraid-of-the-teacher-it-is-better",
Essay 976:
	Teachers play a vital role in mentoring students and the skills acquired by them during their academic tenure reveals their hard work. One school of thought believes that teachers should be very strict in the classroom while others believe that amiable nature of instructors yields better results. I believe that combination of both models could potentially produce favourable results; these two models will be analysed in the essay.
	Proponents of hard teaching style believe that if the student feels petrified from their instructor, they will become more disciplined and organised. A strict behaviour of teachers helps in maintaining classroom ethics. For instance, I was usually weak in mathematics in my bachelor's program, it was the stringent nature of the instructor that kept me terrified and I worked hard to achieve decent grades. Teachers who develop the image of strict pedagogues tent to control the classroom environment more effectively. Moreover, students submit their assignment on time, remain punctual, respect their instructor and do not create a mess in the classroom.
	On the contrary, harsh attitude of a teacher kills the creative skills of a student. Amiable nature improves collaboration between the two. Students afraid of their teacher tend to avoid asking questions, and they might struggle in absorbing the lecture which will impact their academic grades. For instance, students generally prefer frank and polite instructors in their project work, because they believe that they can discuss problems with them in greater detail than with strict and arrogant teachers. Moreover, friendly attitude of instructor helps students in sharing their view and discussing their problems.
	To recapitulate, the aforementioned provide plausible arguments in favour of both views. However, in my opinion, instructor and student bond should be a blend of both models as it will not only help in maintaining the required discipline but will also improve collaboration in the class.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1435-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-428-young-people-these-days-tend-to-be-less-polite-and-respectful-than-in-the-past",
Essay 977:
	Many studies show that new generation is discourteous and disrespectful than that of previous generations. Rationales are many folds. This essay delves into the reasons for this attitude and suggesting some remedies.
	Undeniably, in the past younger people were more polite and respectful to the elderly people and to the society. For instance, in Indian culture, it was very common for young people to always respect the elderly people but nowadays this behaviour has almost vanished. Globalisation, the influence of foreign cultures and sense of individuality are some main reasons for this paradigm shift. The cultural exchange between the nations are rapid and that gives the young generation a sense that they are not obliged to respect others. The impact of western culture has destroyed the traditions in many countries and this is another reason for the less polite behaviour among the youth. Secondly, with the advancement of technology people are busy with the social media, foreign music and movies. For example, the younger generation is not only engaged with their mobile gadgets but also spend less time socialising and as a result, they have less time for others. Furthermore, moral values of the new generation are declining as the educational process has changed rapidly. Teachers and parents no longer spend time teaching children about moralities and obligation to societies.  
	However, it is necessary to tackle this issue from childhood by proper parental guidance and by proper education. The family is the first school and parents are the best teachers. So they can shape the behaviour of their offspring from the very early stage. Continuous usages of technological devices such as mobile phones or computers should be restricted. In addition school curricular should also give priority to the moral aspects of students and should include counselling and guidance classes in their curriculum. Furthermore, social media should also broadcast the programs portraying the importance of good character and moralities.
	In conclusion, it is an undeniable fact that today's generation is lacking respect and politeness in their behaviour.  To some extent, this is due to the advancement of technology and influence of social media and foreign cultures. Teacher and parents’ lack of proper guidance can also be attributed to this shift. Proper education, controlled use of technology, socialising, family bonding, and better parenting are the most important aspects to address this pressing issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1434-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-427-tourists-should-accept-social-and-environmental-responsibility",
Essay 978:
	Firstly, every country has its own culture which attracts tourism and tourists want to experience their cultural values and norms. So, if they deny being responsible enough to follow them, there is no use of travel to such countries. For instance, Golden Temple in Punjab (India) is a very popular religious place where every devotee has to cover their head and pay respect. In case tourists would not follow the rules, they will not be welcomed by temple devotees and local community.
	Secondly, In the case of the environment, it is extremely important for tourists to be aware of every place where the intending to travel. Every attraction has its rules to follow to keep tourists safe as some beaches have deep water level, some have shark endanger areas and so on. They should not be making beaches and harbours filthy. Recently, at Wellington Harbour, the council has to spend half a million to remove debris which could cause danger to sea creatures and natural beauty of the city. If the country has to face heavy expense to retain its natural beauty then it would not provide healthy tourism.
	Finally, I would like to say that tourists should do research about the country they are planning to visit before they travel to have an enjoyable experience for both sides which will promote good relations among tourists and countries.
	In conclusion, host countries always try to give the best experience to the visiting tourists as this is a major source of earning for many countries. However, being adherent to some simple rules and tradition by the tourists would be always positive in terms of keeping a safe and healthy environment and to avoid cultural and traditional contradictions between the tourists and host countries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1433-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-426-english-is-becoming-used-more-and-more-as-a-world-language",
Essay 979:
	In the contemporary world, peoples' lives are progressed pursuant to the changes that globalisation brings to the society. Popular western cultures have altered the overall linguistic practice around the globe, establishing English as a dominant language while leaving other minor languages in threat. Some argue that such a trend can allow global citizens to achieve harmony through destructing a communicational barrier while others state the opposite opinion. These two divergent ideas will be analysed in the following paragraphs, supported by relevant examples.
	Having English as a common language can ease possible difficulties arisen by language barriers. One can readily recount incidences of people having conversational problems when travelling overseas. Not being able to understand foreign languages disable people from comprehending foreigners' thoughts and bonding with them. Consequentially, this may cause some to develop biased or negative perceptions of people from other countries. Therefore, if the citizens of the world could speak one or fewer languages, troubles generated by language barriers would be minimised and create a harmonious society.
	However, the disappearance of a language may result in a loss of a nation's cultural identity. Languages do not only represent verbal practice by humans but also reflect on a country's traditions. For example, the Korean language includes two different ways of expressing words depending on which age group one belongs to. If such as a linguistically diversified activity was to be replaced by English, the nation would lose its historical custom that had been maintained for centuries.
	In conclusion, the aforementioned ideas suggest two varying opinions about having fewer languages in the world. I personally believe that every language should be preserved to keep its individual identity and characteristics.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1432-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-425-the-purpose-of-zoos-is-only-to-entertain-people",
Essay 980:
	Around the world, people can find all the different species in the zoo. Some people believe main aim of having zoos in the cities is the amusement of the people. However, I do not agree with this outlook and believe zoos also serve other purposes. In this essay, we will analyse how zoos can benefit endangered species and play a role in educating young people.
	First of all, the purpose of gathering various animals at a single place is the wildlife education for children. For instance, getting knowledge about anything can become much easier when kids actually see them. In other words, zoo keeper talks organised at zoos provides very useful information on these animals and thereby, students can learn to respect all the living creatures. Therefore, it is evident that educating school pupils is the one important purpose of these zoos.
	Another crucial need of zoos is protecting endangered species. A good illustration for this is that these species can be saved from being killed by the hunters and also scientist can work on improving the population of these species by arranging artificial breeding programs. Thus, the future generation will also be able to experience these animals and the issue of extinction of animals can be solved. From above, the theory of having zoos for conserving wildlife is difficult to debunk.
	In conclusion, it is seen that the zoos not only play a key role in the education of folks but also help to guard animals against hunting. Thus, it is incorrect to say that zoos are only for the entertainment of the society. It is thus hoped that people will realise the actual advantage of zoos and will encourage the government to maintain and build more zoos.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1431-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-424-advertising-encourages-consumers-to-buy-in-quantity-rather-than-in-quality",
Essay 981:
	Advertisements play an important role in informing individuals about the availability of products. Thus, they are the primary source of information and motivating people for shopping. However, I believe that adverts encourage individuals to purchase items in bulk. In this essay, we will analyse how adverts make use of offers for persuading people in buying products in wholesale.
	To begin with, most of the companies provide some deals on buying more number of objects. A good illustration for this is the lux company which agrees to give soap free on purchase of two soaps. By advertising such proposals, people are induced for buying extra soaps than actually required. Thus, it is apparent that the aim of such proposition is to invoke people for acquiring objects in large number rather than quality products.
	In addition, some companies provide some prizes on buying their product. For instance, they announce a free abroad trip for those who are able to find a hidden code on the cover of the item. With the hope of getting an opportunity to travel abroad, individuals keep on buying the product either until the offer is expired or until they win a trip. Therefore, the theory of adverts focusing on selling products in large number is difficult to debunk.
	After analysing the purpose of adverts, it is obvious that by offering gifts they provoke society in buying excess things rather than quality. As it is seen that people prefer shopping those goods which provide some gifts rather than the goods of good quality. It is hoped that government will enforce some regulations on the adverts for the product for declaring unnecessary gifts. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1429-factors-which-are-related-to-student-s-academic-success-in-universities",
Essay 982:
	Academic success in universities is a desire sought by every student. In fact, there are several reasons which help students to obtain academic success in universities. Chief among them are the good motive by their instructors and the easy modern teaching methods.
	The first factor which is related to academic success is a good motive. Needless to say that the good motive immensely contributes to the success of the students in their academic lives. When the instructors begin to positively motivate their students, such students will feel a strong desire to success. As a result, they will become positive and ambitious students who will endeavour in order to achieve success. Moreover, it can be said that it is instructors’ sole responsibility to plant motivation and challenge among the students. Accordingly, the students will achieve success, not only academically, but in all aspects of life.
	The second element that brings academic success for students is the use of modern technology in the teaching process. Undoubtedly, the modern technology facilitates the learning process for the students. Additionally, such advanced technology, to some extent, pleases the students and makes them engaged in their studies. However, if the students misuse such devices, they will get no benefit from their studies and this technology will turn out to be against them. Obviously, the proper study plan and disciplined routines help students to stay focused on their aim and this is another important factor for academic success. In my opinion, the talent, proper study, right study environment and good faculty are some important aspects for such success.
	In conclusion, no one can deny that good motivation and modern teaching techniques greatly contribute to the success of the students. By applying the above techniques, we will get excellent students who will contribute to the growth of their communities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1428-some-people-feel-that-entertainers-are-paid-too-much-money",
Essay 983:
	Entertainment is a very important part of our lives. In our day-to-day mundane routine, it is movies, music and sports that rescue us from the boredom and monotony. They inspire us, motivate us and it makes us hope for better by giving a vivid experience which is often larger than life, through films, songs, concerts and games. However, people who bring these stories to life, who put in months to connect the lyrics and pair it with the right notes and people who go through extreme training to bring out the best sport for us are often thought to be just ‘lucky’! I honestly believe that the people who strive to bring quality to our entertainment deserve to be paid well. Besides, usually careers of sportsmen, actresses or musicians last for a shorter span of time than that of teachers, doctors and engineers. Thus, if they earn more money for the risk they take, the amount of dedication they put, and the performance they show, seems quite justified to me.  
	Having said that, I also think that there are few other professions other than film, music and sports industries in the realm of entertainment, should also be highly paid. People who devote their lives for their jobs, army officials, for instance, ought to be paid well as a small appreciation of what they do for the civilians. Also, jobs which involve a high level of responsibilities and pressure also deserve a  high pay. Professions like doctor, politics and teaching are the jobs that require people with high level of perception and proficiency. Thus to attract such talent to these jobs, it is important to pay them well.
	In conclusion, all the above points fortify my opinion that people in entertainment business receive a payment that they deserve. Nonetheless, other professions which involve high risk, responsibilities and skills, should also be paid well so as to attract and keep the required talent motivated enough to choose these fields as their possible career.
Essay 984:
	In the past, the field of entertainment was not developed and hence, people from this field were paid very less. However, with the improvement in the technology, the income of the celebrities increased to a greater extent. I personally believe that these people are gaining money in excess. In this essay, we will analyse the reasons for this and also discuss the professions which deserve such high income.
	To begin with, celebrities such as actors, musicians and sports person are been paid based upon their fame among the people. A good illustration for this is the Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan who is said to be charging money in crores for signing a single film. In other words, he is been paid such a huge amount just with the hope that film will run successfully. But, it is also true that the society will not be harmed even in the absence of such films and actors.
	Instead, I feel that people working in the industry with the aim of the well-being of the society should be offered such pay. For instance, doctors or security personnel’s should be paid good amount because they always help the people of the country by protecting them. Moreover, they invest a lot of money and the time for obtaining their degrees and once they receive the degree, they oath to be available for the people at any time of the day. Hence, it is apparent that jobs that focus on safeguarding the people should be heavily paid.
	In conclusion, it is seen that paying huge amounts to the famous personalities is equivalent to wasting the resources which can be utilised in a better way. Instead, this amount should be paid to the people in life-saving professions such as doctors or police officers. It is thus hoped that government will regulate the salaries of the people based upon their important and role played in the society.
Essay 985:
	It is a fact that a lot of entertainers such as movie stars, pop singers or professional sports players are highly paid. It can be seen from their night lifestyles, luxurious properties and sports cars. A lot of people believe that they are overpaid since the function of their jobs is only to entertain the public and it is not categorised as vital jobs. There are other jobs which are more important for societies, and they should be well paid. Firstly, many people do not realise that the existence of firefighters is crucial for the neighbourhood as they could save many people's lives. Besides that, their jobs are also considered as a high-risk job, since they could be seriously hurt or injured.
	Secondly, as a leader of a nation, the president or prime minister has a lot of responsibilities. He/she must be meticulous, prudence and wise in taking decisions, since his/her decisions might have a serious impact on the public. And then, becoming a country's leader also faces the terror of being murdered or kidnapped by terrorists. Therefore, these professions should be well compensated in accordance with the risk and responsibilities.
	In conclusion, it is believed that famous entertainers are overly paid these days. I strongly agree with the opinion, since entertainments are not the basic need of human beings. I do believe that there are other jobs which should be highly paid since they are high risk and their existences are essential for mankind.
Essay 986:
Essay 987:
	First of all, there is no such profession that is more deserving or higher than the other. Every type of work, either be it acting, playing or hospitality job is different and valuable of its kind. Talking about the amount of money that is being paid to entertainers, I think they deserve this. Though they are not serving people, they play an important role in serving the country. These people work harder and harder each day to master their skills and amuse people. They play for the country and represent it in the world. For example, our Indian cricket team give its fullest to win the game at national as well as international level so as to raise the name of the country.  Another example that can be given is, film stars, they struggle a lot to get into this field and eventually, when they are successful and famous people remember our country by their names. Therefore, it cannot be said that these jobs do not deserve money. They are paid for their determination and hard work.
	On the other hand, it is undeniable that jobs like doctors, teachers or community workers are paid considerably less amount in comparison to above professions. These fields of expertise should also be paid generously depending on their performance and the knowledge they possess.  They are equally important to us as the entertainers.  These people serve the country not sometimes just physically but, also using their mental capabilities.
	To sum up, from the aforementioned, it is totally justified that no work is high or low. Every profession has its own value and everyone deserves the best. However, I recommend that instead of reducing salaries of the entertainers, people and government could think of increasing the wages of other professionals too.
Essay 988:
	There is no denying that entertainers like film actors, pop musicians and sports stars are paid too much money. I really do agree with this statement. However, some people think, there are several jobs that should be highly paid as well. In this essay, before presenting my point of view I would like to discuss the job culture.
	Nowadays there is news about the celebrities who are earning more money through their profession like acting, singing, dancing and sports etc. some of the celebrities like sportsmen and actors are earning extra money through advertising and becoming brand ambassadors of the particular brand. There is no any difference in work like sweeping, machining, teaching and in medicine, every work required effort and the reason for earning money for the sake of survival.
	In conclusion, I do not think any work is big or small, it is the difference created by us and I think now the time has come to stop differentiating people through their work and everybody should be paid equally for their work.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1427-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-421-mobile-phones-and-the-internet-are-very-useful",
Essay 989:
	Nowadays, mobile phones and the internet have become very common among the individuals around the world. However, these facilities are not frequently utilised by the aged population. In this essay, we will analyse how usage of cellular phones and web can help them to communicate and fulfil their needs without travelling. Also, we will discuss how designing user-friendly applications and phones can encourage such people to use them.
	To begin with, old people sometimes find difficult to travel a long distance. In this case, cell phones and internet can come to their aid by helping them to communicate with others without commuting. In addition, they can use these technologies for ordering the food or reserving their tickets and thereby, will avoid standing in long queues. Thus, it is evident that these people can take benefit of these facilities for staying in touch with relatives or family and even satisfy their daily needs.
	In order to motivate these people for using such facilities, companies should concentrate on developing easy to use web applications or the phones. For instance, they can develop cell phone with the big keypad and the internet apps which provide information in their local language. In this way, old people will be able to understand how to use them and hence, can enjoy their use. Therefore, focusing on the development of products which can be easily understood will encourage such people to use them in their daily life.
	In conclusion, the communication will be easier for the aged people with the use of this technology. For achieving this, organisations should make an attempt to develop products which can be handled by old generation. It is thus hoped that government will make some efforts in forcing industries to produce such products.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1426-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-420-people-today-are-using-computers-and-electronic-devices-to-access-information",
Essay 990:
	In the past, only limited ways were available to access information such as newspaper, magazine and so on. In modern scenario, with the passage of time and advancement in technology use of electronic gadgets is increasing rapidly in order to access information. Despite this, it is agreed that in the foreseeable future print media will disappear and computer, mobile phones will be used by masses because computer provides fast, convenient service as well as accurate information.
	Firstly, accessing information online provides us comfort as masses can use it at anyplace and anytime within few seconds. For instance, today with the help of search engine like Google, Bing and so on accessing information has become more convenient than the past. Individuals just need to enter a keyword in search box about one particular object and whole the information will be in the front of their eyes within seconds like if anybody enters Apple iPhon Google search box then whole the detail of establishing apple company and products will be on their smartphone screen. Thus, this makes it clear that print media is not going to be operational anytime in the near future.
	Secondly, on print media getting latest information is slow rather than electronic devices. For example, a few months ago when Malaysian airplane was crashed then information about it was available on the same day on the internet as well as television but on print media, it was available after one day. Moreover, on Wikipedia individual can get information about past centuries and about every celebrity, which is tough to find in print media and showing information by Wikipedia is accurate and really tough to deny.
	In summary, electronic gadget helps masses to keep updated with the latest invention. Thus, it is a clear use of print media in order to access information is an idea that will not be realised anytime soon. It is predicted that print media will be replaced by these devices.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1425-children-are-given-too-much-free-time",
Essay 991:
	Many people think that modern children have an abundance of free time and doing more school work in their free time is necessary. As parents, being concerned about children's grades and studies is natural but overpressuring them to study and get top grades might backfire. Children's leisure activity should be fun yet interesting which will eventually teach them important lessons and make them more creative.  
	Schoolwork is definitely important. But if children are forced to study all day long without having enough time for recreation or refreshment, it will increase their stress level and negatively affect their physical and cognitive development in later stages of their lives. I believe, free time means a child should be allowed to do things that our of their normal routine.
	For children, it can be playing sports in the playground or a park with other kids of their age. This will teach them how to be a team player and enhance their social skills. They can also play educative video games for a few minutes and watch cartoon shows. Besides, practising a hobby sounds impressive to me. For this, a family should be open-minded and try to find the hidden talents of their offsprings. I believe that not all children are born with particular talents. It is our duty as parents, teachers and relatives who motivate them and engaging them in extracurricular activities such as drawing, dancing, singing etc are also necessary. We have to understand that an unsocial adolescent with good academic grades cannot make much impact on our society and cannot climb the professional success.
	In conclusion, even though studying and preparing for exams is very important for the future of a child, we should not enforce them to be occupied with it all the time. Instead, various social, fun and creative activities in free time will make them more prepared for the future.
Essay 992:
	Different individuals have their own opinion on leisure time utilisation by students. Critics may say that this period should be utilised for learning school subjects. However, I feel that they should be enrolled in various extra-curriculum classes in their free time. In this essay, we will analyse how this will help their psychological as well as physical development.
	To begin with, getting involved in other activities can boost the functioning of the brain. For instance, if young people opt for mind games such as Chess, it can help them to improve their thinking ability. This will not only enhance their cognitive performance but can also serve as the exercise for the brain. Thus, it is apparent that youngsters who prefer to perform such activities in the available spell will be mentally strong.
	In addition to this, performing outdoor activities allow these teenagers to carry out different body movements. A good illustration for this is the outdoor activities such as Volleyball, cricket and so on which involve a lot of running. Pupils participating in these games are forced to execute different body movements and thereby, this helps them to improve their physical wellbeing. Therefore, the benefits of spending an ideal time playing games are difficult to debunk.
	After analysing these areas, it is obvious that investing time in extra-curriculum will offer advantages with regards to the development of young people. It has now been shown that students should be registered in hobby classes instead of forcing them to concentrate only on schoolwork. It is thus hoped that apart from schools, the government will also encourage pupils to undertake such activities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1424-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-418-is-education-the-answer-to-stop-people-from-eating-junk-food",
Essay 993:
	Junk food has been claimed to be a fundamental factor to the escalating obesity epidemic around the world. Some argue that educating the society is an optimal solution to alleviate this worldwide issue. However, it is believed that persuading citizens through education is not likely to outweigh the central temptations that junk foods offer – its low price and convenience. This statement will be analysed in the following paragraphs, supported by relevant examples.
	Regardless of how the educational scheme is provided, the low priced meals sold by fast food outlets are not likely to lose its popularity. Most of the members of the low class or unemployed students, for instance, are inevitably attracted to eating cheap fast food due to their financial difficulties. Thus, unless governments subsidise citizens' living expenses or intervene to forcedly raise fast food price, education will have a feeble effect on discouraging people from consuming junk food.
	In addition, it should be noted that there is no practical substitution for junk food which can be prepared and sold quickly. This choice of diet perfectly fulfils modern workers' need to save time in the busy contemporary society. For example, even though my colleagues are aware of the negative aspects of junk food, they still eat from KFC since they simply do not have time to prepare a proper meal. This therefore clearly demonstrates that eradicating junk food consumption through education is not a realistic approach, but merely an action of informing people about what they already know.
	In conclusion, although one may think that educating individuals can convince people not to eat fast food, its low price and ability to offer a quick meal will continuously motivate them to visit fast food stores.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1423-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-417-in-many-countries-airplane-tickets-prices-have-dropped",
Essay 994:
	In the past, commuting to foreign locations was difficult due to the expense involved in travel. However, with the advances in the technology, air travel was made available for the users at affordable rates. It is believed that decline in the air fare has a positive impact on the society. In this essay, we will analyse how this has boosted job availabilities and contributed towards deploying peace in the world.
	To begin with, this kind of activity has enabled a large number of customers to travel abroad. As a consequence, demand for employees increased in the field of tourism and thereby, job opportunities were created for people interested in this field. In other words, a decrease in the cost of air ticket played a crucial role in the improvement of employment statistics around the world. Thus, it is apparent that drop in this fare has a direct impact on the increase in the work engagements for the needy.
	In addition to this, low fare allows people to travel abroad for fulfilling their employment or education needs. This, in turn, allows them to get familiar with the culture of hosting country and hence, helps them to develop respect for inhabitants of that country. As a result, the chances of communal riots are decreased to a greater extent enabling people to live in peace. Therefore, the theory that reduced travel fares have helped individuals to stay in harmony is difficult to debunk.
	After analysing the areas of benefits for the society, it is clear that drop of ticket rate has benefited humans in various ways. As is proven that reduced airfare results in the positive outcome for the society. It is thus expected that government will put efforts to maintain the tickets rates at lower so that maximum travellers can take advantage of the same.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1422-some-young-people-are-deliberately-damaging-the-public-places",
Essay 995:
	In the past, public places were developed for the benefit of the society and everybody seemed to respect that. However, nowadays some youth are playing a crucial role in destroying such places by organising parties at these free locations. Giving importance to socialise with their friends is one of the major reasons which provoke them to perform such activity. To tackle this, government’s role will be analysed for viability and parents should take some steps as well.
	To begin with, sadly some young people are more inclined towards their social life. Thus, in order to spend time with friends, they prefer setting meetings or parties at the public places. As a consequence, they create a lot of litter in gardens or parks, which not only spoils the beauty of the place but also contributes towards the pollution. Therefore, it is apparent that prioritising social life is the main cause of creating rubbish in public places. Though there are quite responsible youths yet there are some youth who seems very eager to show their power in the public places and they do whatever they wish. There are many ways how those bunch of young people are destroying the peacefulness of such public places. They often shout, talk to friends loudly which might be disturbing for others. Again, They often smoke in public places which are harmful to others and such young people care very less to respect the rules of those public place and often fight each other and show muscle powers to others which are very abominable especially in public places.
	To counter this, the government should restrict people from using such places for their personal benefit. This can be done by enforcing strict rules and penalties if individuals organise any private event at such places. Apart from government’s involvement in solving this urgent issue, the awareness among people must be increased. They should know the harmfulness and long-term effects of damaging public places and they should spontaneously volunteer to avoid this.
	As it is seen that young generation is playing a crucial role in spoiling the communal places by producing garbage which results from the parties held at these places. It is thus hoped that government will introduce the subject related to the importance of public places in the school curriculum and target towards the reduction in the misuse of such places.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1421-changes-in-their-lives-are-essential",
Essay 996:
	Although, some people, who are leading a luxurious life, have a desire for change in their life. They might be bored with their day-to-day chores and their activities such as going to the office, doing the same work because of which they lost the zeal in their interest. So, people feel that change in their roles, lifestyle, working in a new location can bring a stimulus in their blood so that they feel adept in working with the new environment, people and their roles. Working in the same place or job can make them sick in responding to the situation and finally they enter into the routine and banal life. Hence they want to have a new role of life.
	Some other people feel that sometimes a change in life can a have a negative impact on future. Suppose, the family who is leading a prosperous life with their family members do not want to anticipate a change in their lifestyle. Because they think that, a change may weaken their relationships, health characteristics, status etc. In addition to this, it might be possible for a change to make the people who are leading a lucrative life to starvation, bankruptcy or even decrease their status. So people hesitate to welcome this inevitable change in their journey.
	But, finally, getting a change in life or not, does not lie in our hands or not in the hands of prophecy. Sometimes, a change can make a footwear stitcher to become a president of America, like Abraham Lincoln, while, on the other hand, it can turn a person, who is having enough money in Swiss bank account to lifelong imprisonment. So everybody needs to agree that, a change is inevitable, and follow his/her path that comes in front of the way. Even though the path is covered with flowers, or it is cluttered. For example, how Mukesh Ambani started his business with petrol pump, sweet shop and dramatically became a billionaire and holding a world famous oil refinery. On the other hand, Gali Janardhan Reddy who was very rich and a member of parliament, but a small change in life made him go to jail because of his disproportionate assets being a responsible person.
	So, even if a change comes in life or not, one should have integrity in performing the deeds to convert that change into fruitful one.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1420-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-415-information-can-be-accessed-on-electronic-devices-so-print-media-are-not-important",
Essay 997:
	In the modern world, people want to get information about the every aspect of life easily and instantly. With the advancement in technology, an individual can access the information through electronic devices like computer, mobile phones, the internet etc. and thus the print media is losing its popularity. I agree with this statement that people should adopt the new technology and use electronic devices to get information rather than old ways of getting them.
	Multifarious points are there to prove my view. Firstly, accessing information in a computer with internet connection is very fast and convenient. People just need to enter a keyword in the search engine such as Google and the information can be assessed instantly from various reliable sources with detailed references. Secondly, individual have the opportunity to get different views regarding one particular subject which help them to broaden their horizons. Thirdly, today everybody wants to live a comfortable lifestyle and they have no need to carry other things and no need to pay extra on print media. Finally, the information presented in a print media becomes outdated soon while the information on the internet gets updated regularly. So accessing information from electronic sources is more reliable and accurate.
	On the other hand, some people ponder that magazines and newspapers play an essential role because elder people do not know the 'ABC' about electronic gadgets so they are unable to use them to access information. They also add the logic that, on the internet, English is a staple language but some part of the population is not familiar with English which is really tough to understand for them. Finally, they assert that newspapers, magazines and books are printed in each language which provides them with a comfortable way of accessing them.
	In a nutshell, I would like to conclude that government should organise awareness program for elders how they can use electronic devices because we all need to live in a modern society. The old way of accessing information would not be feasible in near future and people would mainly rely on the electronic device to get them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1419-students-would-benefit-from-spending-some-time-away-from-studying",
Essay 998:
	When it comes to taking a break from education and gaining some experience travelling or working before joining a college or university for higher education, people have varying opinions. While some support taking a year gap and utilising this time for travelling or working, others are in favour of uninterrupted academic life. This essay will agree that such a gap is highly beneficial for learners. 
	To begin with the demerits of taking a gap year and why some people do not favour this approach - it can be a waste of valuable time as many students would squander it by doing nothing meaningful. There are numerous cases where students plan for indicative travelling, learning and gaining job experience between their secondary and university studies, but end up doing none of these. For instance, two of my cousins took a long vacation before starting their university education and wasted a large sum of money and got ill in a foreign land where they were supposed to work and gain experience. They later agreed that it was a terrible idea.
	To conclude, the idea of taking some time away before joining a university is a great approach from numerous perspectives. However, it should be well-planned and properly utilised for a better academic and professional career.
Essay 999:
	People have divided opinions about taking a break before starting university. Some consider that discontinuing studies for some duration is advantageous for students and they favour this approach. However, I do not agree with this outlook and prefer completing the entire process of education without any longer interruption. In this essay, we will analyse how the personal and professional lives of students are afflicted, if they decide to halt their studies for a year or so.
	To begin with, many pupils opt for taking a gap between school and university qualifications. By doing so, many students can lose interest in joining back and enjoy continuing the activity undertaken by them in break time. These students can still get employed but the chances of getting a better career are reduced. Thus, it is apparent that taking a break from studies can affect their upcoming professional life. For instance, I personally know a few students from my hometown, who, despite being bright students, took a gap year before starting university and was misguided that a university education is not required for a great career. They decided to continue with their jobs instead of starting university. As a result, none of them has a good career now. It might be true that some billionaires never finished their university education, but they are not examples, but expectations.
	Moreover, some students might still be able to continue their studies after coming back from break, but a great deal of time has already been wasted. Consequently, they will lag behind others who are already ahead of them in university. Some may find it difficult to concentrate on their studies because of the long gap. Therefore, the harms of halting education in between for some intervals are difficult to debunk.
	After analysing the areas of professional and personal development of students opting for leave in studies, it is clear that this particular concept can constrain their growth. As has been proven, students should not prefer taking a year gap between school and university educations. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1418-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-413-are-famous-people-treated-unfairly-by-the-media",
Essay 1000:
	Media plays an important part in our lives. However, some people believe that the famous people are negatively depicted by the media while others reckon that media is the first source that produces the famous people. For many reasons, which will be discussed below,  I strongly believe that positive media does not affect the famous people, unlike the negative one which interferes with their private lives.
	It is widely agreeable that the positive media makes us well informed about the famous people. To illustrate, we can become so familiar to those famous people and we can get benefit from their good merits. Additionally, we will be able to apply their good conducts in our lives. Needless to say, all people are affected only by the famous people. Consequently, we can imitate them in whatever is positive. In this way, I believe that media should continue to show us those famous people so that we can develop and lead a comfortable life.
	Media plays an important role to make someone famous. Mass people from all around the world know about the fame of someone through the media. So in a way, media helps someone to get famous. It is a bad practice for reporter and journalist to take vengeance against some famous celebrities. This should be completely avoided. I completely agree that the famous people should be given their privacy and should not be followed everywhere they go to. This is a basic human right that they often can't enjoy.
	The second reason why the positive media is important for famous people is that it enormously increases the fame of those people. Additionally, such famous people will drastically be known all over the world. Hence, the famous people will not only gain their fame medially but rather they will be materialistically and morally rich ones. Accordingly, it can be noticed that famous people get their fame from the media and they will be so grateful to such promising and positive media.
	On the other hand, when the negative media is employed in the lives of famous people, it will upset them. In other words, all of us know that some curious media always want to know everything about the famous people. Moreover, it always interferes in their lives and chases them wherever they go. Undoubtedly, such famous people will utterly become dissatisfied with the so-called media since it penetrates their privacy. As a result, this kind of media is surely unwelcome in all communities.
	To recap, we have to differentiate between the two kinds of media mentioned above. Positive media contributes widely to the production of famous people while the bad one extremely affects the privacy of those famous people. Hence, we should do our best to encourage the positive media and to prevent such negative one.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1417-should-students-take-a-gap-year-before-attending-universities",
Essay 1001:
	One of the most conspicuous trends among today's pupils is taking a year off for travel or job before commencing the tertiary education. This is a phenomenon which leads to both problems and advantages. In my opinion, a year break for the students has both positive and negative effects. This essay will discuss the influence of a year gap on the teenagers and will lead to a reasoned conclusion.
	On the contrary, many students get deviated from their studies and feel difficult to start the academic education after having a long break. Some of the teenagers get attracted to the lavish lifestyles and prefer to adopt obnoxious habits. Needless, to say all these demerits have a far-reaching impact on the students.
	In view of the arguments outlined above, we can conclude that the potential drawbacks of having a break after secondary education are too dire to ignore despite some merits. Hence, the parents and the students have to consider the consequences before deciding to a year break from studies between their school and university education.
Essay 1002:
	In recent days, it is quite common for young adults having a break time after graduating from secondary school. It is not the case of rich people choosing travelling as a destination while poor young adults prefer to work in spite of entering university for a period of time. I personally believe that there will be a number of positives and drawbacks in both cases.
	The reasons for this issue may involve the recognition of restricting knowledge and experiences in entering university studies, comparison with deciding to work or take a journey which will give a broader view of life. The young adult will be better on the resources of the personal life because for both cases are able to develop them as the independent people. Students deciding work or explore the beauty of world definitely gain some practical experiences and recognise the meaning of life rather than spending much time with some papers or plenty of assignments.
	On the other hand, the disadvantages of both cases perhaps make people not interested again in continuing their study. They may end their study because of enjoying their daily life. Moreover, they may face some problems in adapting academic environment after spending a lot of time in work field or adventures. Therefore they probably think that it is better to pursue a career in particular jobs or do something different which can make this life full of colours in spite of studying in university. However, it will be less of people deciding break because to obtain a better future academic qualification as a primary of requirements.
	In conclusion, having off time for young adults after graduating secondary school is not a wrong decision. They may argue that spending time for gaining greater experiences is one way to enjoy this life before coming to the environment which has many differences from the previous study.
Essay 1003:
	Some people are in favour of students taking a gap year before university, while others believe such a break in education is disruptive.  I believe that while there are arguments in favour of both views, that students benefit more from continuing their education straight from secondary to tertiary level.
	On one side of the argument, a gap year provides opportunities for work experience, personal development and a period of relaxation away from the stresses of full-time education.  High-school students are subjected to enormous pressure to achieve high grades, particularly in Asia, meaning that leisure time is practically non-existent and young people have little chance to indulge in hobbies or recreational activities  After-school classes, summer schools and exam preparation courses also prevent many high-school students from engaging in sports which can develop teamwork and leadership skills, or from travel which allows them to gain cultural awareness and to develop as individuals.  A gap year would provide just such opportunities.  
	Furthermore, work experience either in paid employment or in a voluntary capacity would give students practical skills, a sound work ethic and an appreciation of the value of money they have earned themselves.  Such experiences help students to become more rounded individuals, enhance their CVs when they apply for scholarships or work after graduation and provide employers with valuable insight into an individual’s aptitude, personality and ambitions.
	On the other side of the argument, many students returning from a break in academic study find it very difficult to adjust to university life, give up their ideas of a higher education altogether, or waste their gap year in worthless activities.  Starting a university course after a year’s break is difficult.  Gap-year students are a year behind their high-school friends and have forgotten many of the lessons learned in school, or indeed, how to study at all. Many also miss the income from unskilled gap-year jobs and decide that they would rather have money now than wait for a better salary later, prompting some to abandon their scholarly ambitions altogether.  In the Philippines, for example, some students are enticed into non-skilled jobs with attractive salaries, forgetting that what they can earn after graduation will, in the long run, provide far better financial security. There are also many high school students who start a gap-year with good intentions, but fail to find work or a worthwhile activity and end up wasting their time – something they find hard to explain to future employers.
	In conclusion, while some students may profit from taking a gap year, I am convinced that for the majority of students a year’s break is detrimental to both their educational progress and their final careers.
Essay 1004:
	Taking a gap year off between high school and the university has become a popular choice for many students. There are a number of common ways they utilise this time; such as travelling abroad, volunteering or working.  I personally believe that this kind of experience should be recommended to students more actively since they can offer youngsters several benefits.
	Spending time outside of school indicates that students can encounter opportunities to interact with people who they are not used to communicating with. Foreigners they meet while travelling overseas or colleagues from volunteering and work enable them to develop exceptional social skills to talk to others with cultural, racial or age differences. Such experiences can subsequently motivate them to be a more confident and outgoing person, which is believed to help them establish a solid social network.
	Another distinctive advantage that a gap year break can give to students is a time to try out different types of practical work. Many teenagers graduate from high school without having clear occupational plans. However, participating in work experience programs or working part-time before starting university can broaden their perspectives on career choices. An exemplary case can be illustrated by looking at my sister, who spent six months teaching English in Cambodia during her gap year. While she was looking after the disadvantaged local kids, she developed a desire to work for international charity organisations and she enrolled in an international studies degree.
	In conclusion, I am convinced that the society should encourage more high school graduates because the process of establishing social skills and trials on different jobs can provide them with invaluable life experiences.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1416-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-411-the-noise-levels-have-impacted-the-quality-of-our-life",
Essay 1005:
	The environment today is threatened by many factors such as air pollution, noise pollution and so on. However, among them most concerning is the noise pollution. In this essay, we will discuss how population growth and technology advances have affected this issue. To tackle this, the government can play the major role by setting rules and regulations in the country.
	To begin with, there are various reasons for the increase in the noise pollution. One main cause is the ever-increasing population of the world which leads to the excessive usage of vehicles for travelling. This results in the traffic congestion and thereby, forces individuals to utilise honking system, which adds to the noise. Besides these, with the advances in the technology, many new systems are developed and excessive usage of these systems can increase the noise levels. Sound systems, loudspeakers and random seminars on roads are some other reasons which are increasing the noise pollution.
	In order to minimise the problem related to the noise, certain measures can be taken by the elected authority. First of all, they can concentrate on improving public transportation in such a way that it will reduce down the usage of private cars and more number of people will start relying on public transit. In addition to this, usage of noise reduction systems should be enforced to companies involved in the production of new products. Thus, the government can put efforts to reduce noise pollution for upgrading the standard of society. Apart from the government’s involvement in solving this urgent issue, the awareness among much people must be increased. They should know the harmfulness and long terms effects of increased noise level and they should spontaneously volunteer to reduce this level.
	Thus, it is clear that increase in the usage of cars and various modern systems have contributed to the increase in the sound levels. It is hoped that legal entity will educate the society about the harms caused by noise pollution and ways to avoid this.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1415-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-410-people-should-be-encouraged-to-get-married-before-they-are-30",
Essay 1006:
	In the past, people used to get married at a younger age, usually after turning 20. In the modern society, individuals reduced the priority of getting married as their demands from life increased. However, I personally believe that getting married before the thirties is beneficial for people as well as the society. In this essay, we will analyse how this can enable people to plan their future and help reduce responsibilities of the government.
	To begin with, if folks start favouring marriage before the thirties, they can get enough time to understand each other before starting their own family. This will not only help them to develop trust in each other but also helps them to get familiar with partner's dreams. In other words, they can easily work together towards building their upcoming life. Thus, it is apparent that this marriage will provide them ample of time for structuring their future in a positive way.
	Besides this, couples wedded before these years have higher chances of giving birth to a baby at a younger age. Owing to this, the health of the child as well as parents is benefited. As a result, it is less likely for them to suffer from ailments at an earlier stage and thereby, increases the life expectancy of human beings. From this, it is clear that government might need to spend minimum resources on health benefits of society and can concentrate largely on the economic growth of the country.
	After analysing the areas of personal and social benefits, it is clear that such couples can expect healthy family life and thus the country can expect the growth. It has now been shown that individuals should be motivated for getting married before thirty. It is thus expected that government will educate the nation about the benefits of engaging themselves in a relationship at the proper age.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1414-some-people-work-for-the-same-organisation-all-their-working-life",
Essay 1007:
	In the past, people were more inclined towards working in the same organisation for their entire life. Today, different individuals have a varied opinion about the work options. Some people prefer working for same company throughout their life, while others believe in switching their companies. Both viewpoints will be critiqued before reaching a reasoned conclusion.
	On the one hand, there are a group of individuals who dedicate their professional life for one corporation only. The primary reason for following this is the stability which can be achieved only by working at the same place for a longer time. This will not only allow employees to gain thorough knowledge about the application but also increase the chances of recognitions and promotions. Thus, it is obvious that professional life will be at the advantage in case he is employed in the same industry for a lifetime.
	On the other hand, there are some individuals who believe that they are benefited by altering companies. This is because such folks can get exposure to different working environments, thereby, allowing them to get trained about different systems available in the market. This can increase the market value of an individual, resulting in receiving offers with a higher salary, and hence, financial stability can be attained at an earlier stage. In conclusion, this will enable individual to lead a successful and secure personal life.
	After analysing both the views, it is apparent that varying jobs should be preferred over other since it can provide better family life. Thus, it is recommended that public will keep themselves motivated for shifting industries which can help them to enjoy their life and fulfil family requirements.
Essay 1008:
	Around the world, individuals are highly concerned about their career growth. However, different people have their own opinion about the path for achieving success in their profession. According to one camp, one should be employed with the same company for the entire period, while another camp considers shifting companies provide job attainment. Both these views will be critiqued before reaching a reasoned conclusion.
	On the one hand, there are a group of individuals who prefer working at same workplace throughout their life. These individuals will have a thorough understanding of the existing systems in their organisation and thereby, can be termed as the most knowledgeable employee within the company. As a consequence, they will be always selected for the rewards and recognitions as well as for the promotions. Therefore, it is apparent that these employees can expect stable progress in their professional life.
	For example, a professor working for the same university and getting involved in similar researches would be preferred for bigger research works than those professors who have worked for many organisations in different positions.
	On the other hand, some folks consider that changing their corporation promote career advancement. These individuals get an opportunity to gather information about various applications used across different organisations and thus, can be termed as multi-talented. This knowledge will not only help them to attract employers towards them but also help them to convince these employers for paying them higher wages, thus, their personal life will be comfortable. Looking at this, it is clear that benefits of switching jobs are difficult to debunk.
	For instance, a software developer expert in different platforms and programming languages are better suited for large software companies and their careers often include working in different companies.
	After analysing these two outlooks, it can be assumed that sticking to one company for life-long can offer professional growth, but altering companies can benefit both personal and professional life. Thus, it is expected that people will opt for shifting organisations for having a prosperous life.
Essay 1009:
	Many people argue that majority of people prefer to work in one company all their whole lifetime of employment and this is a better option for employees. However, another group of people would prefer to work for as many as they could work to get diverse kind of experience. I would advocate the latter view for the following three main reasons. First, we need to build confidence with a variety of work experiences at our majored field. Second, we need to give us the opportunity to deal with bigger and new challenges. Finally, we need to be familiar with all types of industries to improve our knowledge and scope of learning.
	First of all, as I mentioned before, we should build confidence with various kind of works through facing different difficulties. If you work for only one organisation during all your lifetime, it becomes boring and monotonous and you could not challenge yourself on different occasions. Your work will become easier for you and you will not explore your hidden advantages to deal new challenges. Thus if you just adapt to your current work, you won’t be able to build your confidence. Therefore, you need to work with several companies with different responsibilities to improve and experience along with confidence.
	Secondly, we need to give us the opportunity to pursue bigger challenges. It is considered that there must be bigger and new chances to expand your view in the new environment. You can meet a wide range of people who came from different backgrounds. Therefore, you can learn many things to develop and inspire your mind from them. After that, it is more open to thinking wider and further to pursue bigger challenges. So you should flourish your development and always bring freshness into your knowledge and experience every single day. I can say that if you have to switch your job in a higher position in another company you should grab it. You never know what potentials are waiting for you!
	Finally, we need to familiar with all types of products to increase our skill and knowledge at our field. Because there are so many products and works need to familiar. If you want to promote or develop yourself efficiently you should have optimal knowledge about all of them. For instance, if you are a marketing people, there are diverse kinds of products available in the market likely: electronic, consumer goods, foods, clothes, automobiles and others. All products that I mentioned need marketing; however, they all have their own specific features and that means they have different customers and market. Therefore, you need to familiar with all industries products at your field to promote and accomplish your mission.
	To conclude, we would prefer to work for different companies that could share us specific advantages to build confidence as well as give us the opportunity to pursue bigger challenges and familiar with diverse kind of industries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1413-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-408-economic-progress-is-the-only-way-to-measure-a-country-s-success",
Essay 1010:
	Nowadays, many experts and global organisations are finding a united definition of a country’s success. It is believed that economic development as GDP growth will illustrate the achievement of a country. Meanwhile, some people put forward the idea that besides this factor, the existence other features that have a stronger impact on that. As far as I am concerned that the latter opinion should receive more support.
	First, it is obvious that for most countries, the political institution plays a critical role in creating a country’s all-round development. This is because it might be a momentous leadership promoting the progress of others important areas such as education, economics, equal and safe society, science and technology. If a country exists in an undemocratic regime, it might be able to lead to the corruptible problem, social inequality, and even occurring advocacy groups phenomenon in the political environment and that means the country do not keep pace with the fast-paced development of globalisation and therefore impeding the country’s economic and social growth. This is particularly important in poor countries like Haiti, South Korea, Congo and so forth.
	That is not to say that economic progress is not an assessment of a nation’s success. It is due to the fact that economic factor exerts an essential influence on mirroring the successful level of countries in the world. For example, today’s economists and governments have still used GDP, GNP and CPI index in order to estimate countries’ development. However, once a nation gives priority to accelerate the economics, this may lead to increasing the gap between the poor and the rich, high inflation, economy-based crimes, and unstable society. So, governments should choose a stable growth corresponded with prosperous society and economy.
	In summary, the country should create the sustainable and successful progress in many areas based on the collaborative and democratic institution and thus by making the society more prosperity and happiness. Meanwhile, we should not neglect to invest effectively in economic development.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1412-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-407-good-relationships-between-different-countries-are-becoming-more-important",
Essay 1011:
	The concept of country, territory and dividing area were made by human throughout the ages but the mother planet Earth is a single entity and if it faces a problem, the whole world would be affected from that. The world is facing more problems, both human-created and natural, that ever and if the world can’t stand in a single ground to work towards the betterment of the world we would not survive for a long. In my opinion, the countries must work together to make the world a better place to live in.
	First of all, the unity among the countries of the world has become more important than ever. Without the concrete relationship and the mentality to work together, the world would turn out to be a very difficult place to live in. While one nation has the abundance of natural resource and luxury to live a lavish life, others are suffering from very basic problems like foods, power supply and that’s inhuman to let it happen. The relationship among countries is important to maintain the peace throughout the world. We have never been attacked by the Aliens and it was us who killed millions of people in the World Wars. We dropped atom bombs to kill the innocent people only because they were ruled by a different government who had a different policy. If we continue to let it happen, countries would start more devastating fights against each other and that would be threatening for the whole world.
	The problems the mother earth is facing like flood, earthquake and average temperature increase are not the problems for a single country. It is a problem for all the nations and they should work together to face it. 
	The countries of the world have volatile economic structure nowadays and no country can guarantee a solid economic stability for the coming ages. The only solution to the survival of nations is to work hands on hands. The poor nations who are deprived of many basic needs would become an enemy of the neighbouring country who has better life standard and thus more terrorist would emerge. To solve this problem, the rich countries should help increase the economic conditions of those poor countries.
	In conclusion, I repeat the well-known proverb ‘United we stand, Divided we fall.’ This is true for our world as well since we don’t know what difficulties are coming to attack us and we must work together to face it and to survive. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1411-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-406-earlier-technological-developments-brought-more-benefits",
Essay 1012:
	Many people argue that the technological invention and development in earlier ages were more beneficial to ordinary people while others believe that the technological development in recent years is more important and helpful for mass people. In my opinion, recent advancements in technology fields are more important and helpful that they used to be in the early ages.
	First of all, technology is still progressing and the development of technology will continue. Earlier technology is being constantly upgraded to bring more values to the people and from this point of view, the recent development is more accessible for mass people. Secondly, the earlier technology was very expensive and mass population could not afford it. Only a few percentages of rich people could access the technology in earlier ages. But nowadays to own useful technological devices like cell phone, computer, communication devices and household appliances have become much cheaper than it used to be. Thirdly, recent technological developments are far more impressive though they are often not highlighted as the earlier technology. The invention and development of cell phones are well-known information among people while very few people understand the implication of the advancement we have made in genetic engineering and medical science. People in earlier ages had little control over the epidemic disease through the invention of TV at this time is highlighted in greater details. But the advancement of medical science to eradicate those diseases is a tremendous development in medical science that few of us understand.
	Finally, people in today’s world have more opportunity to develop a technology that the people in earlier ages had and thus we are improving and introducing more complex and accommodating development in technological fields that would be greatly revered in coming days.
	So, I opine that the development in technology in earlier ages was very important but it would be unwise to say that they were more beneficial for the mass people that the technologies that we have introduced or introduced in current days.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1410-why-do-people-take-part-in-dangerous-sports",
Essay 1013:
	It is true that countless individuals are eager to participate in adventurous sports even though they are aware of the risks involved. There are various reasons for this; however, certain safety measures, if adopted and followed, can mitigate the dangers associated with these sports.
	To begin with, one of the predominant reasons for the popularity of some dangerous sports such as paragliding, bungee jumping and scuba diving is that people tend to take part in these sports to overcome and conquer their phobias and fears. Many people suffer from aquaphobia and acrophobia, and to free themselves from these fears, they indulge in some adventurous yet life-threatening sports. These sports, they believe, will boost their confidence and make them intrepid.  To exemplify this, I was extremely afraid of heights but to overcome this fear, I did paragliding not only once but thrice in a row on the same day even though I was aware of the risks involved. I am no longer afraid of tall buildings and extreme heights. Moreover, people have thrilling and exhilarating experience after doing these sports. They feel more alive and younger.
	To mitigate the dangers involved in these sports, the most effective measure is to use proper safety gears and equipment such as harness, ropes and specialized clothing. Before doing the sport, the participants should be checked thoroughly to ensure that their specialized safety kit and gear is functioning properly. This practice, therefore, would reduce the risks involved. In addition to what has been mentioned, the specialists and experienced professionals should provide 1-2 days of training to interested participants to avoid any dangers. For example, before doing sky-diving, the professionals provide 2 days of coaching to the people who are going to take part in it. Moreover, participating in these hazardous sports must be avoided in extreme weather conditions, such as during rain and thunderstorms.
	In conclusion, from a quick analysis of the situation, it is quite evident that people are inclined towards precarious sports as it helps them to conquer their fears. Undoubtedly, the dangers associated with these sports can be significantly reduced by taking proper safety measures.
Essay 1014:
	No doubt, everything in life has two sides, the good and bad. Sports are just another example, in some cases, it can be life-threatening, but still, a lot of people find it very enjoyable. I guess the pleasure overcomes the danger, especially if it is assessed and controlled.
	Dangerous games are sometimes very alluring and have a large amount of prize. People like to watch thrilling sports and those sort of games are often taken as challenges. Those are the main reasons people participate in dangerous games even after knowing the consequences.
	To control such threats, standardisation must take place to put some guiding rules to decide whether a person is fit or not to practice a sport of dangerous nature, also to highlight environmental conditions needed to practice it safely to both practitioner and spectators, a good example would be the rally racing. Cars have to be inspected very carefully for mechanical failures by a highly qualified team prior and during the laps, very close monitoring for the road to avoid any obstacles that may cause harm or damage, also the car itself from the design point of view has to be safe to the driver against potential accidents that may contain front or side hits and in most cases extreme flips or fire.
	Another clear example would be diving, a very enjoyable experience but dangerous and needs good preparation. Extensive training should take place in a simulated environment like a swimming pool before actual diving into deep water, the equipment has to be tested, a dive location readiness to be briefed prior to the dive and a common language to use underwater to communicate different basic sentences.
	In conclusion, it is safe to practice any sport you like with enough planning and adequate training, no matter how dangerous it is, you just have to measure the risks and get over it with gradual skill improvements.
Essay 1015:
	Sport is a very important thing in our life and it plays an integral role in keeping us healthy. There are many types of sports, for example, fighting sports, water sports, single and team sports. Some of these sports are dangerous like mixed martial arts and mountain climbing.
	Many people prefer these dangerous sports and keep practising them regularly. I think they love to do so because they may feel a lack of confidence, so they try to maintain this point through doing these dangerous sports. Besides that, some people may have problems in dealing with others as they might be treated in an impolite and crude way, so they need to learn and practice fighting sports to be able to defend themselves. The most striking feature, in my opinion, is the stress in addition to the negative energy that many people have, they need to release their stress by practising dangerous sports as windsurf for instance.
	Last but not least, governments and the concerned regulatory authorities should set rules to guide and control the practising of these dangerous sports, as one of their responsibilities is to keep their citizens safe.
Essay 1016:
	There are many extreme sports today such as a high-speed car or bike racing, mountain climbing and water sports. Despite many risks associated with these sports, many people love them because of their adventure and risk-loving attitude, to feel the sense of achievement and to attain celebrity status thereby earning money through sponsorships. Since these risks come with a price tag, they need to take several precautions while playing these sports like, following strict safety measures, learning from the experience of others and joining a group rather than attempting them individually.
	Many people today are ambitious because of the said reasons. For example, the number of people today trying to climb Mount Everest is on the rise. It makes them stronger mentally and physically by handling life-threatening risks such as avalanche. Apart from these reasons, some like this type of sports to earn celebrity status. Once they earn this privilege, they are respected by society and organisations pay them to become brand ambassadors. For example, a recent Mt. Everest climber has been selected as an icon of a famous trekking equipment maker.
	While adrenaline-raising sports are good, several precautions need to be taken while participating in them. Safety measures are most important because life is at stake. Having safety devices at reach can save one from serious injuries. Another easiest and suggested approach is to read blogs or books of people who succeeded and failed while trying them. It helps to form a list of what and what not to do. When these games are tried in a group, they can help each other during accidents and whenever an obstacle struck.
	In summary, as risks are associated with a price tag, strict precautions need to be in place to stay alive.
Essay 1017:
	People are becoming more and more carefree and can go way out of the ordinary when it comes to risky sports. Because of the fame and the monetary reward that some unsafe sports provide, it has been common practice among many sports professionals to go to the extremes of the risk limits. Below paragraphs shall discuss reasons why people dare to choose these sports, following recommendations to safeguard against such dangers.
	There are several reasons why many people like threatening sports. The abundant amount of monetary income and astonishing fame allowing them to become global celebrities are some of the main reasons which in turn lead to adrenalin rush among the sports professionals to participate in unsafe sporting activities. The racing drivers are the people who daily undergo such high-risk conditions, for instance, however, they are willing to do it repeatedly due to the rewards that they receive through this.
	Safety measures and standard instructions are always there in place for the majority of the mincing sports when it comes to practising them. Firstly, sports person should train oneself under experienced coach, which will help to get an overall idea about dangers associated with the particular sport. Secondly, a person ought to take proper precautions according to the standard guidelines outlined. For instance, racing drivers should always wear fire-proof jackets to better protect them from fire accidents. Finally, these kinds of activities should be performed after the careful inspection of a sporting venue and the sports equipment by safety experts.
	In conclusion, many people like to participate in life-threatening sports activities for various reasons like money, popularity etc. However, one should be circumspect about the dangers of such activities and better follow safety guidelines and train well in advance before practising them. Also, governments can define some safety norms for unsafe sports.
Essay 1018:
	Some sports have a high level of risk. However, individuals still enjoy these activities due to their high adrenaline level and their popularity. In my opinion, it is still possible to handle these dangers by using proper equipment.
	Firstly, some people like to be at risk by their nature. They like to take part in activities, which cause adrenaline in their bodies. They believe it is the most enjoyable thing to do in life. For example, my friend John is a professional boxer. His nose is broken twice in competitions. Although he gets hurt badly, he believes he can not quit boxing due to his high adrenaline level. This is one of the major reasons why people like to be a part of risky sports.
	Secondly, dangers are quite popular in our societies. Since it has become common, some individuals like to be on the stage. For instance my cousin Graham is a rally racer. He mentions that his activity helps him get attention, especially among the opposite sex. Therefore he keeps on joining risky exhibitions.
	In my opinion, these dangers can be controlled with appropriate tools. There are many products in order to protect people. For example in Ice Hockey, manufacturers are creating strong helmets against hard hits. They are testing these products under laboratory conditions, moreover, they use extremely hard materials like fibre-plastic as a contributor.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that people are going to continue to attend dangerous sports events because of their desire for adrenaline and popularity. I believe self-protection can be provided by choosing the correct equipment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1408-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-404-in-some-countries-in-europe-some-children-from-the-age-of-11-or-13-go-to-schools",
Essay 1019:
	There is a growing trend of children attending vocational schools from the age of 11 or 13 in Europe. While some people are of the view that such schools enable children to learn practical skills that help them get a job, others feel that an academic education is more important. This essay tries to explore the context behind the two schools of thought and tries to frame an ideal solution to it.
	There is no doubt that a strong academic education is very important in order to secure the future of children. A strong schooling culture not only instils discipline in children but also helps them to shape their thinking and improves learning ability which is extremely valuable in life. Besides, an elementary knowledge of all subjects is a must in order to compete in this challenging world.
	However, we must understand that not all children are academically oriented. It is best to encourage such children to start learning a vocation from an early age in order to prepare them to earn their living. Giving them the early start is important so that they can excel in their field and also they have enough time to explore other options.
	In my opinion, schools can provide a perfect blend of both these situations. Introducing vocational subjects like carpentry, fashion designing, automotive courses etc. will allow young minds to discover alternate career options while giving the comfort of a school environment. Specially designed tests can assess the inclination of a student to a particular skill. Besides, the vocation courses can be tailored to fit the requirements of particular students.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1407-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-403-young-and-energetic-employees-are-the-most-valuable-for-the-company",
Essay 1020:
	Which benefits your organisation more, having more experienced staffs or a group of young and fresh employees? There is no common agreement to answer this question because different people think differently about this topic. Some people believe that elderly staff's experience outweighs young employee's eagerness and energy and the rest have opposite point of view. I personally believe a suitable combination of young and experienced employees would work best for every single company.
	Older employees are valuable assets for financial organisations as they have many years of experience behind them. Consequently, they own a great knowledge about the company and nature of the work. As a result, they can offer good solutions in tight situations as in many cases they have had the similar experience before. For instance, they can foresee the bottlenecks and potential problems better than young staffs. However, most of them usually become outdated gradually as they gradually become less willing to update their knowledge.
	In contrast with the older staffs, younger employees usually are very energetic and have an updated knowledge about their field of work. To say more, they are usually more creative in solving the problems, eager to learn more and have a great effort in the work. Although these are all very beneficial for every company, their lack of experience may suffer them as well.
	To conclude, according to my experience as a software developer, a good mixture of young and experienced employees will have the best effects in the companies. The experience of elderly in combination with youth energy and passion make the teams more efficient and the companies more productive.
Essay 1021:
	It is essential for a company to be equipped with employees who can positively contribute to its business. Some argue that more young people should be recruited to achieve this goal while others insist on fulfilling the same task by employing older counterparts. However, it is felt that a desirable position to demonstrate the question is to differentiate what each age group is good at, and how they can bring values to a company.
	Young employees' physical strength and creativity can bring fresh perspectives to an organisation. Older people are usually conservative in terms of exploring innovative pathways or unfamiliar changes. Young people are however always eager to gain new experiences and this often helps firms generate ground-breaking ideas. For example, the marketing company I work for usually relies on university graduates' brainstorming process when attempting to roll out new products. Their imaginative thoughts and inexhaustible trials have indeed supported the company to create many unique products.
	On the other hand, the experienced and qualified intellectual properties possessed by older workers are equivalently crucial for a company's success. In fact, as is the case with my father's company, the organisation prefers to hire mature aged workers than younger ones. This is mainly because of their belief that one's ability to manage unexpected situations, such as safety issues or important business decisions usually come from long years of working.
	In conclusion, the aforementioned ideas clearly substantiate that both young and older employees are equally able to contribute to a company's future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1404-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-402-elderly-people-often-live-in-retirement-homes",
Essay 1022:
	With the advent of advanced technologies, social liberation and fast paced lifestyles, family structures have changed considerably in order to adapt to environments they live in. One of the common patterns which have emerged lately is that of fewer children, working parents and elder members of the family living in retirement homes. Despite intuitive beliefs of this being inappropriate as families should always care for ageing members, there are practical reasons for such an arrangement being good for everyone. This essay outlines two such aspects to show why retirement homes are good for the elderly.
	Firstly, the loneliness which is one of the biggest difficulties of old age is automatically solved by retirement homes as people get to live with others of their own generation. For example, my grandparents could never relate to the 21st-century topics discussed at our family gatherings. They were more comfortable in bygone nostalgia and could very well mingle among people of their own generation. Such a company of people being easily available in retirement homes helps their mental health to be in a very good shape.
	Secondly, elderly people almost always need specialised care which they can feel confident about. Retirement homes are equipped with professionals to provide for the needs of their clientele. This is not always possible in a family of all working adults. Hence, retirement homes become a better case for the wellbeing of the elderly.
	So, as seen from above two aspects of companionship and care, retirement homes are rather a better option for the elderly. Thus the taboo of retirement homes should be erased and they should be recognised as important institutions of our society.
Essay 1023:
	In many communities, it is common to see that some senior people are placed in retirement facilities. Some people think that this is not a good way to treat elder people, as they believe that elder people should be fully respected and properly treated. I personally agree with the statement, and the following essay will discuss in details about it.
	For a number of reasons, many people choose to place their parents in a retirement house. Some people think they are very busy with their careers and they do not have any time in giving attention to their parents. Another group of people see that their house are too small, therefore letting their parents live with them would not be a suitable solution. And then there are others who think that their old parents would be an economic burden for them, therefore they place their parents in the retirement house. However, many people do not realise that a lot of old people who live in the facility feel lonely and desperate, as they think that their families do not love them anymore. And in some cases, their relatives rarely or never visit them.    
	There are some thinks that people should notice before they place their parents in retirement facilities. Young people must respect and take care of their old parents as parents were the one who raised them. When young people were born, they were weak and helpless, and parents were the one who fed them, comforted them and stayed awake during the night to take care of them. And then when they grew up, parents were the one who gave financial supports for their studies, bought them proper clothing and provided them decent accommodation. It is undeniable that parents play an important role in the success life of many young people, therefore young people should never forget their parents and must take care of their parents properly.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that placing old people in retirement houses has become a usual thing these days. However, I disagree with the condition, as I believe that senior people should be respected and loved by their families. There have been so many good and useful things that these senior people have done for their families, therefore their families should take care of them when they are old.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1403-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-401-shopping-unwanted-things-is-just-a-form-of-entertainment",
Essay 1024:
	It is observed that people spend their leisure time performing one or other activity. However, some individuals enjoy shopping in their free time. Some people consider purchasing items for enjoyment has positive outcomes while others refute this claim. Both these views will be critiqued before reaching a reasoned conclusion.
	On the one hand, there are a group of people who consider shopping has benefits. The primary reason for believing this is the fact that with the increase in the consumers in the market, there will be growth in the job opportunities. In other words, the problem of unemployment will be ceased to a greater extent. This will not only help job seekers to fulfil their and family's day to day needs but also decrease the crime rate within the country.
	On the other hand, some people believe that shopping for sake of amusement has many negative effects on society. People who have a tendency of buying things on daily basis just for fun end up buying many unwanted things, thereby, causing wastage of resources. In addition to this, people involved in shopping do not realise the importance of time in developing bonds with family members. This, it is obvious that considering shopping as entertainment not only results in wastage of assets but also wastage of precious time.
	Therefore, it is hard to see how anyone can support the idea of shopping in ideal time following the analysing both points of views on this topic. It is felt that it would be best to minimise market time and consume the same for improving relations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1402-the-gap-between-rich-and-poor-is-becoming-wider",
Essay 1025:
	There is no doubt that the gap present clearly today between the poor and the rich is getting wider by time and is affecting our way of life.
	That was only observed in the past in some communities where the wealth of a country was restricted to a few powerful and connected people. They used to own more than eighty percent of the resources and income, while the rest is barely enough for the common people. Nowadays, the difference is significant but not limited to the societies finest. Society is divided into groups, the rich, the poor and the few managing to enjoy some of the rich benefits but struggling to keep this level, they are bouncing between the limits of each of the other groups.
	As a result of today's situation, a broadband of the poor are striving to get a fair share of prosperity with no actual hope, the fabric of the society is getting weaker and therefore each group is more colonised to itself forming new habits and customs. Bridging this gap can only be done if equality was achieved in basic needs like education and healthcare. If acceptable ease was managed for the common people in their daily routines like public transportations and business facilities, that would also be helpful. There must be transparent laws to manage the use of wealth and the equality of sharing it and monitor any possible corruption. The sense of equal opportunity has to be delivered and believed by all people.
	Briefly, no community can prosper and evolve safely unless the gaps are bridged between people in all aspects giving a fair chance to everyone to live in comfort if they worked reasonably hard to achieve it.
Essay 1026:
	The amount of income of people is always an important topic in social sciences. The equilibrium of society depends on how this income is shared among the people. Sadly, with the start of the 1950s, the gap between poor and rich has become wider and nowadays this gap has reached its peak point.
	The reason for this situation is the structure of our business system we have constructed over years. This economic model is called ‘Capitalism’. Needless to say, the word Capitalism is the derivative of Capital and obliviously, one who has capital has the chance to improve his business and obtain welfare. On the other hand, poor guys are less likely to build a business because of the absence of capital. One of the ugliest results of this system is that this system makes people simply greedy. The community has started to think true happiness can be reached only with more money. Another problem we face in this system is consumerism which means to have a good stable mood it is obligatory to consume more and more. In future, if this economic model preserves itself, it can lead to anarchy which may result in disasters and deaths of many innocents.
	To improve our lives, to beat this endless unhappiness, we should teach our children the importance of social justice. This problem is not going to be solved in the following several years. In the long run, we should change the way how we understand life. We must alter the roots and dynamics of our community. Nevertheless, we should preserve our hope because human beings had solved much more difficult problems in history. There is a great number of people who are aware of this problem.
	In conclusion, the social and economic formation and revolutionary changed in current capitalism is required to eliminate the gap between the poor and rich. More than three-fourth of wealth is owned by only 15% of the total population in the world. This is an unfair distribution and if not addressed carefully would only create chaos in the future. 
Essay 1027:
	It is true that nowadays the difference between the wealthy and the poor is increasing: the wealth is growing, while the poor are going deeper into debts.
	We must acknowledge that life for some categories of the population is extremely hard. It does not mean that they are people who have never worked in life or those with anti-social behaviour like drug or alcohol addicted. I read in "Gold Coast Bulletin" that 700 households in Queensland had been disconnected from electricity in the past 3 months because they had not been able to pay the bills. It is true that it is more complicated for these citizens to survive and adapt, as the cost of living is unreasonably high.
	On the other hand, 1% of Earth’s population owns as much money as the rest 99%, which is absolutely unfair. I doubt that all of them have inherited their wealth or have been working hard for decades. The names of the two wealthiest families –the Rothschilds and the Rockefellers are known to everybody. The ways of getting such enormous sums are not always legal, but society prefers to ignore such facts.
	Moreover, these people do not only live in multi-million mansions, drive luxurious cars, eat in sophisticated restaurants, but they constantly show off their money, which many people find offensive and irritating. Instead of spending a fortune on useless things, why are not they involved in charity more? If they have billions of dollars and do not know what else to purchase to attract others' attention, why do not share half of their wealth? They will not become poorer, while the lives of less lucky ones can be transformed, and these people can at least get a chance.  The whole society would benefit because of that as the crime level would descend.
	Overall, the gap between the rich and the poor is becoming more dramatic, if the Governments do not take immediate actions, it is going to grow in future as well.
Essay 1028:
	The economic differences in society create inequality among people. The differences between rich people and poor people’s income are increasing in recent years. The reason for them can be classified into improper government policies and the individual's talents.
	Tax policies introduced by the governments are favourable for the high net worth people to evade the tax. For instance, entrepreneurs have different tax slabs that make them avail tax exemptions like, opening an office in a special economy zone can result in good savings and an increase in profit. However, we cannot discount the individual talents in making enormous profits.
	Talent is something that can be acquired by experience or inherited from the family. There are several startup companies created by talented individuals who make it to the rich people category in a matter of a few years. In addition, there are few interesting people from the wealthy segment who use their talents to bridge the income gap between the rich and poor.
	For example, companies like Microsoft and Google are spending hard-earned money for the betterment of society by investing in child education and infrastructure. If all the organisations and the individuals spend a fraction of their enormous income on the country's infrastructure, education and economic growth, then there are bright chances to fill in the gap of the income difference.
Essay 1029:
	It is true that nowadays rich people are getting even richer and poor people have become poorer especially in developing countries. This situation has presented a wide variety of problems to the community and it has negatively affected a country's developments. To tackle these problems I believe that governments and authorities should take necessary steps and implement laws to improve the living standards of financially poor people.
	To begin with, studies have shown that poverty and crimes are correlated owing to the fact that people are committing crimes for earning a living. Furthermore, children's of poorer parents are often not able to access higher education even they may have talents in their studies. As a result, they are not hired for a wealthy job. This means that probably they will live their lives under uncomfortable circumstances and poverty. That will present uncertainty in one country. Moreover, the public health of one country would deteriorate if people in one country are living in extreme poverty.
	To tackle these worrying concerns governments should need to do more works to minimising the gap between poorer people and richer people. Firstly, governments should provide financial support for people who are living under uncomfortable financial circumstances. Secondly, governments should ensure the quality of education for all of their citizens. That will definitely help to reduce the poverty as well as increasing the living standards of financially poor families. Finally, developed countries should take more responsibility and efforts to eradicate poverty from the world. These efforts already have been seen in some African countries and that have helped many people to increase their living standards.
	To conclude I believe that we as a human everyone has rights to get access to education and quality life. In addition, education is the most useful weapon to fight against poverty. In this sense, governments should ensure the quality of education for all of their citizens. That will certainly help to reduce the gap between richer and poorer people.
Essay 1030:
	In this day and age, the gap between affluent and destitute is becoming increasingly wider. This surging wave of differences among people leads to some problems, which are elucidated below. However, these are not insurmountable problem if the government takes some suitable measure.
	The most significant problem is that the rent of crime will increase because in wretched families both parents should work outdoor and cannot pay enough attention to their children. As a result, these kids will grow up in an improper way and almost all of them are serious dangers for society in the future. In addition, these poor families always think that wealthy families spoil their rights and so they want to revenge with theft or harshness from them.
	The next problem in this situation is that illiteracy will be common since the needy cannot afford the cost of education. Therefore, their future becomes blurred as they do not get a quality education. This deprivation (lack of education) causes their tendency to lawlessness and violence to become more common.
	While the problems mention above, there are some solutions that can be taken to reduce the problems. Firstly, governments should impose a heavy tax on affluent persons and spend these gain money for improving the destitute lives. Also, governments can prepare the facilities of education, free of charge for poor children.
	In conclusion, today it is apparent that the gap between poor and wealthy is dramatic. However, this situation should not ignore, because it creates some serious such as a surging rate of crime and illiteracy. The government can reduce this gap with some proper measures by taking prudent decisions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1401-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-399-foreign-visitors-should-be-charged-more-than-local-people",
Essay 1031:
	Today, tourism industry plays a crucial role to show heritage places, habits and customs of each country to foreigners. This industry is a major source of income in many countries. Some believe that tourists visiting these areas must be charged more than the local inhabitants. I personally disagree with this view because I think this plan will have more disadvantages.
	On the one hand, those who support that, foreign travellers have to pay more for visiting historical places have their own reasons. One is that these people are averagely more well-to-do than the local residents. Paying hundreds of dollars for booking of hotel, airline or visa, foreign tourists are able to afford higher prices to visit these places. In this case, in Isfahan, a historical city of Iran, to visit ‘Menar Jonban’, an old tower located in the centre of the city, foreigners are charged five times more than the local inhabitants. While local citizens have to pay various taxes, foreigners visiting temporarily a place have not paid any tax; therefore, the regional government must charge them in other ways. To repair, renovate or protect these places, the local state will have more budgets.
	On the other hand, I personally believe that the price of tickets for these locations must be the same for both local and foreign tourists. The first reason behind it is that this plan can avoid decreasing the number of visitors. Clearly, the more they are asked to pay, the less they will travel. As a prime example, had the government of B.C charged those foreigners visiting the national museum of Vancouver, their population would have dropped dramatically; however, by attracting more visitors, this government would have raised its revenue in other sectors, including hotels or public transportation, and foreigners would not have been forced to pay more money for visiting of these locations in Vancouver. Furthermore, this policy can have a huge negative impact on nations` relationships. Definitely, heritage premises are the best ways to show each nation`s culture, whereas increasing these fees will lead other nations to know less about the host country. In additional, this has a negative psychological effect on tourists while they are forced to pay more than the local visitors. They might feel discriminated and would plan to visit other places than spending more on cultural and historical places. Over the year the number of tourists would drop and that would be a bad impact in the long run.
	In conclusion, although receiving more money from foreign visitors who visit historical places can have several advantages, I personally think that this will cause them to not only have less tendency to visit there again, but the host country will have less opportunity to show its culture to other nations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1400-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-398-nowadays-people-live-in-the-society-where-consumer-goods-are-cheaper-to-buy",
Essay 1032:
	Today's era is significantly advanced than that of the past and availability of cheap consumer products attracts people to buy things more frequently than ever before. Even though the living standard of people has improved with this, I feel that the demerits of this trend cannot be overlooked.
	On one hand, as a result of globalisation people can access the national and the international products at an affordable price. For instance, new gadgets such as Android cell phones are available in the market at an acceptable price that everyone can afford. In a sense, the widespread use of such technological devices has improved the way we communicate but this is also creating a throwaway society. The gap between the rich and poor has narrowed in terms of their ability to purchase consumer products. Living standard has improved and basic needs are easily met these days and more people have the opportunities to select from more options. As a result, people are purchasing things that do not even need. A single person has multiple cell phones and they are busy all day with their cell phones and internet. Thus people are becoming less social. The technology changes rapidly and thus people need to change the model of a product within few months. The amount of wastage created from these electronic devices is a matter of great concern. Cheaper price of cars and motorbikes are the primary reason for traffic congestion and the habit of purchasing products that people do not really need is a very bad trend.
	On the other hand, due to the cheaply available goods, a newer trend of material possession has emerged. Nowadays people consider this as their status symbol. For example, people who possess the branded gadgets or latest cars earn a respectable position in the society and this is a degradation of morality and social value. In addition, this trend leads to a throwaway culture and the amount of trash produced each day is increased dangerously. As a result environmental pollution is irreversible.
	Moreover, cheap availability of products motivates people to consume the unwanted products. Last but not the least, most of the technologies used for developing cost effective products are harmful to human health and human life is jeopardised.
	Taking everything into consideration, availability of consumer products at an affordable price is a  positive trend as it helps people to lead a better life. However, the negative sides of this trend cannot be forgotten. Social, personal and environmental problems are ever increasing due to this and it might be a serious threat for the future generation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1399-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-397-the-government-should-encourage-industries-and-business-to-move-out-of-big-cities",
Essay 1033:
	Industries and businesses are mostly situated in city areas and problems associated with this bring up the idea of moving the industries and enterprises from the big cities to the countryside. I believe this action will be a good solution for some major problems. This step will offer far more benefits than the disadvantages it has.
	Moving big industries, factories and other offices to regional areas has few disadvantages like transportation scarcity, the cost of rebuilding and finding new employees but this shift will offer significant benefits both for the city and rural people.
	Firstly, moving the industries from city to rural areas is a herculean task. Furthermore, the financial concern is also important. For instance, re-establishing business in a regional area needs more money, and time. In addition, transportation facility in rural areas will be another concern for many businesses. Again, most of the employees in a current factory will not move to the rural area and that would make it difficult to move a running factory to a regional area.  Finally, industries will diminish the tranquillity in the rural area by polluting the environment and resulting extinction of flora and fauna in the village areas.
	However, moving industries and other enterprises to the countryside from the cities will reduce the major problems like pollutions, traffic jams, housing problems and crimes in many cities. This will also create more job opportunities in the country sides. Moreover, the transportation facilities will improve in rural areas and city life will get relief from the choking traffic. In addition to this, the living standard of the rural areas will be upgraded with demanding educational and health services. Over population is a major concern for many cities and the decentralisation would be a great step to reducing the population ration in cities. Furthermore, in many cases, a country’s economic development relies on the development of the rural area and this step will ensure proper development of the rural area. Industries, factories and other big businesses are the main reasons many cities are polluted and the shift would ensure a healthy living place in city areas.
	After considering both sides, moving the industries the to the countryside is a long-term task but it will ensure the equal distribution of population and facilities throughout the country. I hope this action will alleviate the perilous condition of city life as well as will help the rural area to develop faster.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1398-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-396-once-children-start-school-teachers-have-more-influence",
Essay 1034:
	Children are more receptive to a new learning experience and they often learn most at school and home. Teachers play an inevitable role in intelligence development by offering them conducive learning environment. On the other hand, parents plan a pivotal role in cultivation.
	Nowadays, schools and teachers have adopted a contemporary way of teaching methodologies and techniques that are more effective and influential. This way of learning significantly helps in increasing intelligence level in children.  They have been taught to become smart learner by introducing them various techniques such as problem-solving, logical thinking and reasoning. Furthermore, involvement in practical work dramatically increased their strength in others trait of learning. For instance, participating in educational activities with their peer group would have undeniable benefits such as teamwork, pressure handling and forming effective strategies; all these need a lot of intelligence from participants.
	However, parents seem to be more successful in developing social skills. This is not surprising, as many children have been seen in mimicking their parents. They do careful observations about the way their parents act and perform in certain circumstances and start doing the same in their practical lives. Moreover, children spend their maximum time with their parents that help them in learning about social behaviours. Parents substantially help them in this regard and often make the correction if something went wrong against social ethics.
	To sum up, the role of parents and teachers is indispensable for the better development of children, teachers could make a significant contribution to their studies and parents have more influence on their social characteristics.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1397-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-395-an-increasing-number-of-people-choose-to-live-in-big-cities",
Essay 1035:
	It is certainly true that nowadays people are shifting to larger cities. There are several reasons and consequences of this moot issue, however, the government can play a vital role so that one can be rehabilitated into the small towns.
	To begin with, people migrate to big cities to enjoy the facilities available over there and to secure their children’s future. Large cities are the places where various educational institutions are established. Moreover, more job opportunities attract the people towards the cities. Nonetheless, this moving of an enormous number of people creates problems. Firstly, the urban population would go on increasing, because of this, there would be the housing problem. Furthermore, this leads to the creation of underdeveloped slum areas. Secondly, in most of the cases, people in large cities might not obtain the job after several trials which lead to deterioration of their standard of living. The overpopulation is big cities would create more pollutions, would increase the crime rate and traffic congestion would become worse. Next, as the population in cities increases, the number of people staying in towns and villages gradually decrease. Because of this, there might be a situation when food harvesting steps down, this, in turn, produces food scarcity. Owing to all the above reasons it is clear that, the life of people in cities is highly stressful and problematic.
	On the other hand, the government can change this situation of people in large cities. Firstly, the government should improve the facilities in towns so that people do not think of moving to cities in search of better life. This can be done by developing the transport system which interconnects different towns and cities. This encourages the establishment of companies that generates the employment for youth. Construction of schools and colleges in the towns and countryside will help the children to study well. Moreover, providing employment allowances would also be beneficial. The government should decentralise many industries and offices so that small towns create more job opportunities. A large portion of the national budget should be allocated for the development of rural areas.
	In conclusion, I believe that it is the government’s responsibility to look after the welfare of its people. Hence, shifting of more people to cities could be checked by providing city-like opportunities and facilities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1396-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-394-housing-shortage-in-big-cities-can-cause-severe-social-consequences",
Essay 1036:
	The population in cities is constantly increasing, and thus housing crisis is a most common problem big cities are facing today. This is a major concern for governments as it not only increase the cost of living but also affects the quality of life for its residents. I do agree that only governments can solve this problem by taking various measures, such as restricting landed houses to save the space, encouraging vertical residential buildings and gradually expanding the city.
	In the olden days, people lived in landed independent houses as there were lots of spaces in the city. However, this is not possible in the modern cities as the city population is increasing rapidly, and resulting in a space shortage situation for accommodating housing for all. One of the action governments can take is to discourage building new landed houses and encourage people to live in apartment flats. For instance, Singapore government has built thousands of high-floor residential flats through housing development board to accommodate its ever-growing residents in an affordable way. It also stopped permission for building new landed houses to deal with the space crunch.
	Some governments are also looking at options for expanding the city to create more residential properties. For example, Bangalore, one of the fast growing cities in India is continuously expanding by incorporating more residential properties and other infrastructure at the outskirts of the city, which gradually becomes part of the growing city. However, this option is viable only when there are enough spaces surrounding the city. For cities like Hong-Kong and Singapore, which are islands, the only option is to grow vertically within the city. Solving housing shortage is an issue that requires proper planning and big investment and residence of a big city have very little to do and the government seems like the appropriate authority to solve this problem.  
	In conclusion, the cities are growing rapidly and so the residents of the city also grow. Thus, it is the responsibility of governments to take appropriate measures to create better living place at an affordable price for its city residents.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1395-scientific-research-should-be-carried-out-and-controlled-by-the-governments",
Essay 1037:
	Instead of being conducted by private companies, important scientific research must be managed and administered by the governments, according to the opinions of many. I personally believe that private companies should be given their own freedom in doing research, but with sufficient and proper monitoring from the government.
	On one hand, it is true that scientific research should not be only conducted by the government. The main reason is that the scope of scientific research is diverse and wide, and private companies could cover up some research which is not carried out by the governments. Many private institutions or individuals' discoveries are useful for the humanity, as we can learn from the past. For example, Thomas Alva Edison was an individual inventor who has greatly contributed to the world with his inventions such as the bulb light, motion pictures, phonograph and so on. We should notice that the invention was not the main focus of the government’s research during that time, and thanks to Edison we have electric light today.
	On the other hand, although private companies are given the right to do scientific research, they must be strictly monitored by the governments. They must be controlled, as some of them might be doing it for their monetary gain or for destructive weapons. For example, some companies might focus on developing biochemical weapons, and it could threaten the world peace. It is the governments’ job to prevent and block these kinds of research.  
	In conclusion, I do not agree that scientific research should only be conducted by the governments. It is a fact that the scope of scientific research is huge. Therefore private companies should be allowed in doing research. However, I do agree the research that is done by private companies must be reviewed, and monitored by the governments in order to avoid any misappropriation.
	IELTS Essay Topic: Many people believe that scientific research should be carried out and controlled by the governments rather than private companies.
	To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?
Essay 1038:
	It is undeniable that scientific research is imperative for a country’s development in this modern world. However, it is equally important to have a control in place as to who can carry out such research. To a larger extent, I agree that the government should have an upper hand when it comes to undertaking scientific research as they tend to be more people driven.
	There are various reasons why it is pivotal to have government-run research projects. To begin with, when research is carried out by the government, the motive behind is always people-driven and not money oriented. As a result, there is more transparency in the process and the need to invest in a quality research that benefits the general public also increases.
	Furthermore, a government is borne to be more responsible and has complete accountability when it comes to investing public money in such research.
	In contrast, private organizations are not people oriented and they tend to invest in research projects that are more profitable. In addition, when the funding comes from the same organization, the results could also be biased to ensure there is a favourable outcome to the funding institution. For example, companies that produce medicinal drugs are legally obliged to go through rigorous trials, which may take several years to complete. As private companies invest a lump sum of money in such studies, it is impractical for them to wait for a longer tenure to attain the expected results. Hence, there is a higher probability of the quality being compromised to make the research successful.
	In conclusion, carrying out and controlling scientific research is a contentious issue as transparency and openness are pivotal for a quality research. Undoubtedly, this is only possible if done by a non-profit organization like the government.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1394-we-are-filling-up-our-environment-with-plastic-bags-and-rubbish",
Essay 1039:
	Nowadays people produce more waste than ever, as they are accustomed to a “throw-away” lifestyle. And it’s become worst as they generate wastes which are difficult to be disposed of. I personally agree with the statement and the following essay will explain it in details.
	To begin with, as the world economic has developed, people generate more waste each year. With the mass industrialisation, costs of producing products such as the plastic bottle or disposable diapers are getting lower than ever. As a result, lots of people prefer to use these kinds of products, as they believe that these items are more efficient and hygiene. However, they do not realise that these products have a catastrophic effect on the environment. It is very difficult to recycle these items, as it requires for more than a century to dispose of them. Consequently, people require more landfills these days which will reduce the number of green areas.
	However, to resolve the issue, we could change the habits of purchasing non-environmentally friendly products. For example, instead of buying mineral water that is packed in the plastic bottle, we could use a glass bottle that can be repeatedly used. In terms of recycling, the glass bottle is easier than the plastic one and safer for the human’s health as well. It has been reported that plastic bottles could cause cancers and other kinds of serious diseases. Another example would be to use a paper bag or a permanent bag as a substitution of plastic bags. By changing these kinds of lifestyle, it is hoped that we could reduce the number of non-disposable waste in the area.
	In conclusion, it is undeniable that people generate more waste these days, as they have a “throw-away” habit. And it gets worst, as many of the waste are non-disposable. I strongly agree with the statement, and we should change this negative lifestyle immediately. We could start by changing our lifestyle from using disposable items to consuming a friendly environment one, and hoped that the number of waste would be reduced gradually.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1393-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-391-food-can-be-produced-much-more-cheaply-today",
Essay 1040:
	Food is one of the most important ingredients that give energy to people, which might be produced naturally without fertilizers and machinery or with. Even though the quantity of food might be increased, unfortunately, the quality of it might be affected. This essay will describe the possibility of cheap production of food and the drawbacks from such production.
	One of the most conspicuous trends in the twenty-first century is that modern food can be produced with the help of superior machinery. Additionally, scientists created new fertilizers that certainly made the growing process faster.  These unnatural innovations dramatically improved production processes. The price of food has decreased and as a result, people can buy more food for the same amount of money.
	On the other hand, these advantages do not overweight drawbacks because people’s health have significantly being suffered from these new technological innovations and, especially, fertilizes. For instance, according to the recent statistic, the more people use fertilizes to grow the food, the more individuals suffer cancer. Furthermore, many babies were born with disabilities that might be due to the diet of their parents, particularly, the quality of food.
	To sum up, there is no doubt that there is a possibility of food production by using upgraded machines and new fertilizes. However, the quality of food dramatically decreases when people use these new modern improvements. I believe that the fast production of food cannot make people benefit from it. Moreover, these may bring only disadvantages for people, for example, more individuals suffering from cancer.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1392-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-390-for-some-people-shopping-is-not-just-about-buying-what-is-necessary",
Essay 1041:
	Shopping, by its definition, is an activity through which people visit shops and markets and purchase things and commodities they need. However, this is not always the truth and the terms like ‘hobby shopping’ and ‘shopaholic’ refer the excessive passions and inclination people have towards shopping and purchasing things that they rarely need. In my opinion, shopping habit that allure people to purchase things which they do not need is a bad habit and has more negative aspects.
	To begin with, we live in a materialistic world and people take pride on the earthly possessions they have. Our moral should be in helping people who are in need, not amassing our own fortune. The excessive shopping habit thus diminishes the true humanity and nurture a hypocrite mentality among people. It is a well-known fact that if someone starts purchasing things that he does not need at all, someday he will not be able to purchase things that he really needs.
	Second, shopping is an activity that without any doubt gives a shopper a sense of satisfaction and pleasure. However, if someone starts shopping too much, he is bound to be restricted to this activity only while his time for socialising and outdoor activities would be consumed by the time he will spend for shopping. Purchasing things that we do not need is a habit that makes us greedy and imprudent. If we allow ourselves to practice this, we will surely deviate from other morality and quality of life.
	Finally, pleasure shopping supporters are contented about the fact that they are doing something that makes them happy and they think it is a good way to purchase for the future and who knows when we need what! However, they do not realise that they are spending money and time on something that has no real value. Shopping should be for fulfilling our necessity, not for our personal pleasure.
	In conclusion, shopping as an entertainment is not a good trend in our personal and social life. We should invest our time and money on more productive activities to make the world even better.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1391-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-389-some-countries-have-introduced-a-law-to-limit-working-hours-for-employees",
Essay 1042:
	There has been a drastic increase in working hours in some developing countries. Employees have been pushed to work harder and longer without any additional incentives than their wages. Therefore, many countries have passed new laws to control and legitimate duty hours. This will send a good message to workers and will lift their morale and dedication towards work.
	There have been numerous examples, where companies are making their employees work longer than normal duty hours. The primary advantage of this is to increase their production by spending the same expenditure. However, this has led to severe problems. Employees are feeling immense pressure from their employers to meet targets and deadlines. This is one of the pivotal reasons that employees are more susceptible to illness. Therefore, some legislation required in working hours.
	Newly introduces rules have substantial impacts on workers performance and health. They have become more responsible and productive. The quality of the work has also increased after applying these rules. In addition to this, people health conditions have significantly improved. Now they have more time to spend with their family that helped them tremendously mitigate their stress and tensions. Additional time also provides opportunities to make themselves social with their peer group.
	To sum up, I would like to say that excessive works from workers have detrimental effects on their physical and psychological health. Limiting work hours will bring several changes in their lifestyle that would lead them towards better and successful life. However, in many countries employees are obliged to follow longer hours, as there is no law to protect them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1390-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-388-people-find-it-very-difficult-to-speak-in-public",
Essay 1043:
	Public speaking is an art that requires lots of courage, confidence and will-power. Most of the people lack in this skill because of its challenging and daring type of nature. Some of the schools have made it a mandatory constituent of learning because of its importance in practical lives.
	Presentation plays a pivotal role in career development both at school and in office. Researchers at universities used this technique to convey their ideas and findings; their grip on this skill is susceptible to success. The better they are in public speaking, the more changes to convince and satisfy to their audience. Furthermore, many sales companies hired good presenters in order to boost up the sale of their products. Successful agents get lots of incentives in term of money and gift from their employers.
	There is no doubt that children are more opted toward learning in their childhood. Early training of public speaking would help in reducing their shyness and build confidence to face people. The continuity of this training in later classes will help to achieve their lofty ambitions of public speaking. This will enable them to stand and deliver anywhere. However, sometimes it also deterrent the growth of the student. A large number of students show menace while performing this activity.
	To sum up, I would like to say that presentation should be a must activity in schools. It will not only help in prevailing student confidence but also ensure their success in their future lives, Parents and teachers should encourage children to participate in these assignments and work to overcome their problems in this regard.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1389-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-387-society-is-based-on-rules-and-laws",
Essay 1044:
	To start with, society regulations are a must have for running an ideal society. In absence of which there will be possible contradictions among people as everyone has its own way of thinking. For instance, in our society, there is a by-law which prohibits any kind of disturbing noise to be produced after 10'o clock in the night. This rule makes sure that even if someone organising a function, he has to stop playing music after the designated time so as to make sure no one else gets disturbed.
	On the other hand, these rules and regulations should not interfere in the personal choices of the individual as it is against the individual autonomy of the general public. Just to exemplify, a state of anarchy in the society is being created after the government of India proposed to make it illegal to sell and consume beef in India. By doing this the government is imposing their personal preferences over individual choices.
	To sum up, it is quite clear from the above arguments that having a defined set of rules and regulations is a prerequisite for the society to function and avoid any ambiguity but at the same time it is essential to make sure these laws does not comes in the way of individual autonomy.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1388-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-386-competitive-sports-have-a-positive-effect-on-the-child-s-education",
Essay 1045:
	Sports, nowadays have become an integral part of the young generation. In this regard, some people believe that it is wiser to take it hand in hand with education while some argue schools are meant only for academic studies. In this essay, both these views will be discussed and a conclusion will be drawn.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1387-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-385-promotions-to-high-positions-should-be-given-to-employees-inside-the-company",
Essay 1046:
	Higher positions in a company should be filled with honest, dedicated, loyal and talented individuals as the employees of such positions make the important decisions which ultimately determine the fate of the company. While selecting employees for the higher positions in an organisation, people have different views. Some of them believe that existing and deserving employees should be promoted for such positions while others advocate for outside hiring. I personally believe that inside or outside employees should get equal opportunity to fill such positions.
	First of all, it is natural that inside employees are loyal and their dedications are proven. They know the company and its business model better than an outsider. Hence many people are in a strong opinion that a company should always promote an internal employee to a vacant high-level position. In my opinion, they have their reasons to believe so and I also agree that a deserving internal candidate should be promoted to a high-level position. However, my opinion also includes that a company should not promote an internal employee to the high-level position if the employee does not truly deserve and qualify for this position.
	Secondly, the corporate world is quite competitive these days. People often switch their jobs and companies fire and hire employees more frequently than ever before. From this regard, if a company restricts its hiring policy for high-level positions only to internal candidates, it will soon fall behind other companies who have better and more deserving decision makers. On the contrary, if a company always hire from outside and does not value experienced and existing employees, it will soon face the scarcity of qualified and talented employees. Considering both of the facts, a company should always inform the internal candidates about the vacancy of a high-level position and also invite outside candidates to apply for this position. Then the hiring authority should select the best possible candidate for the position: be on an outside or an inside employee.
	In conclusion, hiring for high-level employees in a company is quite an important decision to make. It should not be influenced by any prejudice or outdated rules. Both the internal and external candidates should be given the opportunity to compete for this position and the most deserving candidate should be hired among them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1386-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-384-many-old-cities-around-the-world-are-going-through-a-major-process-of-modernization",
Essay 1047:
	Nowadays, expansion of urban areas has made tremendous changes in cities. Having better transport systems or modern constructions has led citizens to have a better living condition. However, I believe that these changes have caused people to face two obvious challenges.
	On the one hand, advancements occurred in heritage cities have had two important benefits. One is that dwellers have access to better transport facilities. Improving roads or public transportation, they can travel faster from one place to the other place. In particular, in Rome, which is an old capital city in Italy, the extension of rail system has created this city a better place for inhabitants or tourists travelling from other countries because they can reach their destination far simpler than before. Another positive effect is accessing a better housing. Using the state-of-the-art designs in buildings, individuals have a better feeling and higher quality of lifestyle. For example, had not high-rise buildings been developed in Tehran, citizens living there would not have enjoyed the latest technologies of modern systems installed in their inside, including elevators or indoor pools.
	On the other hand, the drawbacks of these modifications should not be forgotten, and I believe that the negative consequences have been more pivotal. The first reason behind it is that cultural values of these regions have been forgotten. Obviously, ruining historic places and constructing skyscrapers or other novel modernised constructions can cause people to not remind their ancestors and what their habits were. For instance, in Isfahan, a heritage city in the middle of Iran, growing of shopping malls has led the old buildings to be demolished. These buildings had precious ancient window designs, which were well-known to many Iranians. Furthermore, this transformation has increased the level of pollutants in cities. Admittedly, having a more luxury lifestyle and using more energy, more waste materials are produced by city-dwellers, leading them to live in a lower standard condition. In this case, only in New York, just over 20 thousand New Yorkers die due to toxic air pollutants annually; however, had not this city developed so fast, more people would have been survived.
	In conclusion, in our modern era, some historic locations are changed to high-tech cities. From my perspective, the negative effects of these changes can outweigh the benefits because of cultural and environmental concerns.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1385-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-382-paying-taxes-is-enough-to-contribute-to-the-society",
Essay 1048:
	Undoubtedly, citizens play important roles in the prosperity of their community. While some individuals think that paying taxes is sufficient to fulfill in the contribution of this success, I personally believe that this is not enough and other important factors, including protecting of resources, following the rules and defending their country against hazards must be considered too.
	Obviously, preservation of the environment is one of the most important responsibilities of citizens in each country. To avoid wasting of energy, people have to conserve it by following of some important outlines imposed by governments. As a prime example, to generate electricity for each house annually, thousands of liters of fossil fuels must be consumed, damaging the wildlife tremendously; therefore, each member of a family has to use the least amount of energy, assisting other generations to have access to a safer environment and more natural resources.
	The second responsibility is that people should follow the civil acts. Definitely, each citizen has to abide the rules imposed by authorities, leading fewer budgets being spent on the protection of privacy of societies. For example, had the people of Tehran, the capital city of Iran, followed the rules of the Citizenship Act, fewer funds would have been used by the government, and this money would have been consumed in other important sectors.
	Lastly, to protect their country, individuals must be responsible. Clearly, although people have to be involved in the monetary issues of their country, their roles in important decisions are more important too. They must be active in political elections, unpredictable invasions, or even during propagation of contaminated diseases. In particular, to protect their continent against Ebola, a dreadful virus causing thousands of mortality around the world in 2014, many Africans had felt a responsibility to defend their country against this virus.
	In conclusion, although paying taxes is considered as an important duty of citizens, other responsibilities must not be forgotten. I think individuals must be active persons in other parts too, including when it comes to the protection of the habitat, country, and abiding by citizens.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1384-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-381-some-languages-are-increasingly-spoken-in-different-countries",
Essay 1049:
	Nowadays, international languages are rapidly growing globally, but using of the local ones is going to be deteriorated dramatically. Although some may agree that this has been more beneficial to societies, I personally think that its drawbacks have surpassed the advantages.
	On the one hand, talking with some specific dialect has had two important benefits. The first one is that trading has become far easier. Businesspersons knowing English language are statistically more prosperous in their business because they can communicate better with their partners than the one not knowing English. The owners of many multinational corporations are originally from English countries or live there, including Microsoft, Google in the USA or British Petroleum in the UK. As a result, these traders can have a better connection to their partners, becoming more successful in their business. Moreover, immigrants can have more comfortable lifestyles abroad. For instance, an Iranian doctor, who is perfect in the English language, can have more opportunity than the one less knowing it.
	On the other hand, I personally believe that other dialects must not be forgotten, and I give the green light to those supporting them. The most important reason behind it is that traditions will be loosed. Clearly, to recognise each nation, knowing about their culture is extremely crucial, and the best device is learning its language. As a prime example, many of Arabic historical transcripts, which show Arabs` history, would have been difficult to be understood if they had been changed to other languages. Their culture would have gradually been replaced with other words, and a cultural invasion would have occurred. In addition, domination of few languages can reduce the rating success of those students talking in other languages. Obviously, developing country scholars studying in developed countries have faced numerous challenges because of language; however, if they had studied in their country, they would have become more successful graduates. In particular, a Persian engineer who has moved to Canada is usually less prosperous than a Canadian one to sit a position in an English language college.
	In conclusion, although the domination of some languages has had several advantages, the importance of other languages should not be neglected. I personally believe that protection of mother languages can raise the value of nations` cultures and their prosperity in education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1383-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-380-history-tells-that-people-have-often-thought-about-creating-an-ideal-society",
Essay 1050:
	It is true that studying the past can help us to know more about how nations had been successful in making a perfect community. Although many options can be considered for having an ideal society, I personally believe that having appropriate leaders and equal usage of resources are two important factors.
	To begin with, in the past, people had numerous challenges to make their country a safer place for living. In many countries, democracy had been the best type of living condition, and voting was the best device for achieving it. However, unfortunately, frauds prohibited them from becoming prosperous in this matter. As a prime example, Iranians participated many times in the national presidential elections to opt their favourable president, but their votes were not counted. Another factor is war. Unpredictably, nations faced sudden battles, affecting their lifestyles. They tried to raise their standard of living by the construction of more industries, schools, houses, and roads, while war destroyed them. In particular, whereas industrialisation had raised the Europeans’ lifestyles, they faced World War II, which demolished their country and millions of lives.
	From my perspective, for having a perfect community two important factors should not be forgotten. One is the selection of an appropriate leader. Definitely, without having a powerful leadership, nations cannot succeed in critical situations. For instance, a good leader can save thousands of people’s lives during a natural calamity by sending sufficient information to national organisations. Had the government of Nepal had a far more efficient governor, fewer people were died by the Earthquake occurred recently. In addition, socialism is extremely important. All resources should be under control of the community, and citizens, from different social status, must have equal access to all resources, including healthcare, shelter, food, and job.
	In conclusion, wars and political corruptions are two leading reasons that caused societies to become less prosperous in their way to make a perfect society. I personally think that leadership and having a standard social system can assist communities to overcome their difficulties and make their country a better place for living.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1382-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-379-charity-organizations-should-only-offer-help-to-people",
Essay 1051:
	Nowadays, many donation corporations and humanitarian organizations consider their own policy to assist their own nation or the poor living in other countries. Some individuals believe that these organisations must only pay attention to deprived areas inside of their country; however, others, included myself, believe that they are responsible for and should help all humans no matter where they live.
	On the one hand, those who believe that all types of help must go for their own residents have their own reasons. One is that their citizens pay tax. To assist low-income residents, charity sectors are better to help the donated money, paid by their own people, to native residents than the foreigners because their people pay tax and they have priority to other nations. Another reason behind it is that this can positively affect the rate of crime. The more the poor are supported financially, the less they commit crimes. They have less motivation to provide their essential needs in inappropriate ways, and citizens will have a safer living condition. In this case, as local charities considered a remarkable budget for shanty areas in Tehran, the rate of armed robbery declined far considerably, according to a local report published in a local magazine.
	On the other hand, I personally believe that these organisations should aid all humans living in other countries similarly. The first convincing reason is that we are all human beings. Clearly, humans live in one Earth and all are creatures of God; therefore, help should not be targeted to specific community or society. For example, as Ebola virus, a dreadful virus which propagated in Africa in 2014, threatened many poor Africans, all organisations paid thousands of dollars for this problem; as a result, this perilous disease was controlled during less than six months. Had not they been received this international assistance, more other humans would have died. In addition, by helping other citizens, United Nations will be backed up more. Obviously, every year, this sector spends millions of dollars on needy living all over the world. In particular, paying money for children who are suffering from malnourishment needs huge funds, which is paid by UNICEF, while if rich governments help poor nations, this organisation will be less under financial pressure.
	In conclusion, although some may say that donation system must only support their poor dwellers, I think other nations should receive assistance because all humans are creatures of God and have equal rights to receive money, and this method can reduce the financial pressure of international organisations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1381-tobacco-is-a-kind-of-drug-and-it-should-be-illegal-to-use",
Essay 1052:
	In the wake of the social revolution, people nowadays are increasingly addicted to various drugs in different forms. Tobacco is one such drug, which is considered to be in the top four of most addictive drugs. Many believe that owing to its addiction and its treacherous effects on human body, it should be banned. In apropos of the argument, I am in consummate accord with it and I believe that consumption of tobacco in any form must be prohibited. This opinion is surrounded by multiple arguments as below.
	To begin with, people are increasingly showing the propensity of using tobacco products because of the change in social structure. In other words, over the years, most of the families have become nuclear and adults are not under any guidance to be protected from smoking habits. For an instance, as per a survey in the USA, 70% of the adults have affirmed that they were inclined to use cigarettes as they did not have anyone at home to guide and show adequate direction. Thus, the onus is on the government to declare tobacco production and sell as illegal.
	In addition, smoking has horrendous repercussion on the human body, which is evidently paralysing the youth of a nation. In a survey in the USA, 60% of the teenagers have confirmed addiction and health ailments germinated by such drugs. Admittedly, it is weakening a nation's health index and consequently, its prosperity. As a result, it is mandatory to ban such drugs to reinvigorate the health of the denizens.
	To sum up, owing to tobacco's addictive features and its adverse effects on human health, it is imperative that government must interfere and prohibit such drugs to be sold and used.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1380-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-377-parents-have-the-most-important-role-in-a-child-s-development",
Essay 1053:
	Undoubtedly, children below twelve years use different sources for learning. These learning sources include their parents, electronic media, toys, surroundings, or their peers to learn new information about everything. Some individuals believe that parents are the best choices for increasing children’s capabilities; however, others, included myself, believe that their growth can be more influenced by other practical factors.
	On the one hand, those who believe that parents’ role is more influential for children’s development have their own reasons. One is that they are more reliable. Children have a better bonding with their parents than their friends or even teachers because they spend more time with their parents than any other individual. As a prime example, a toddler can develop his speech better when he copies his mother’s word and his mother has been the only reliable person who has had sufficient care and supervision. Another reason is that parents are usually more familiar with their offspring’s mood and behaviours. They are the first ones who can find their children’s personality problems due to longer time they have been spending with them. For instance, a mother is able to detect better his child’s depression symptoms than even any other professionals.
	On the other hand, parents’ knowledge might not be enough for the upbringing of their children, and I believe that friends or television have more pivotal roles. The first reason behind it is that their friends are considerably more up-to-date than their parents. Clearly, developing of technology, each generation has more valuable information than parents. In particular, had not adolescents had enough social communication with their classmates, they would not have become familiar with latest versions of social networks and would have become more isolated. In addition, watching scientific programmes, they will be able to upgrade their information about the latest educational findings than when they just rely on their parents’ training. For example, to learn the English language, there are plenty of precious video clips on YouTube that perfect instructors teach grammar, vocabulary or speaking, which are extremely useful for all viewers, including children.
	In conclusion, although some people may agree that parents can be better origins for growing of their children, I personally think that the role of medium and their classmates could be more impressive.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1376-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-376-we-no-longer-need-to-have-animals-kept-in-zoos-so-zoos-should-be-closed",
Essay 1054:
	It is widely seen today that the government is diverting a lot of funds towards development and maintenance of zoos. Although some feel that captivating animals in a zoo are not an ideal notion, others argue that they can best be looked after in a zoo.
	There is no denying to the fact that animals lose their freedom when they are kept in zoos. Also, they are exposed to the artificial way of living and are deprived of their natural habitat. To exemplify, they are fed only at a particular time by their trainers and cannot fetch for food when they are hungry. Moreover, they are mostly disturbed by the advent of numerous spectators who visit the zoo almost every day.
	Nevertheless, animals are safe when kept in a zoo. These beasts can be saved from the effect of extinction. For instance, the Bengal tigers are increasing in numbers every passing year which otherwise was on the verge of extinction on account of hunting and ill health. The forest department is playing pivotal roles for their care and protection. Also, the rapid industrialisation has led to the destruction of forests depriving these creatures of their natural homes. Therefore huge efforts are being made for the creation of a natural environment which best suits these creatures hence not disturbing their natural life. Furthermore, there is a continuous check on their health and hygiene which eventually gifts them a long life.
	In conclusion, I would prefer animals being kept in a zoo on account of their safety and increased life expectancy.
Essay 1055:
	From now on we do not have to have animals held in zoos, so zoos ought to be closed. In my opinion, I do not agree that zoos should be closed.
	Firs of all, many animals are in danger of extinction. For instance, according to the CNN news, which I have recently read on a website, ıf hunting elephants do not decrease, elephants can be extinct in fifty years period. Therefore, we should elephants keep in zoos to ensure reproduction of them.
	Second, many people grow up in the city, and live in town whole they life, so they could not see any wild animals or animals that live in a specific area, but if your town has a zoo, you can meet them in there. for example, when ı travelled to Gaziantep, which city is in the south-east of Turkey, I visited a zoo. ı saw a lot of animals. For the first time in my life is observed bears, elephants, lions, tigers and many wild animals that they do not live in Turkey. İf the zoo did not exist, maybe ı could not see any of them whole my life.
	On the other hand, some of the countries have zoos that are in bad condition. Many animals are suffering from starvation in there. Some of them have died because of it. If a country could not afford zoo's expenditure, it should close the zoo since any of reason is not more significant than animals' life.
	In conclusion, in my opinion, zoos should not be closed. It is useful for animals future. Moreover, it is beneficial to children for learning animals and animals life. I would argue that we need to have zoos, especially for animals future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1375-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-375-some-people-think-that-job-satisfaction-is-more-important-than-job-security",
Essay 1056:
	It is observed that different people have a varied opinion about the job. According to some individuals, job satisfaction should be given priority when compared to security, while others believe that it is difficult to feel satisfied always, instead permanent job should be preferred. Both the views will be critiqued before reaching a reasoned conclusion.
	It is felt by many that work which gives self-satisfaction should be opted rather than fixed job. The primary reason for this belief can be the health benefits offered by the content mind. Working at a place which gives you pleasure not only helps to grow in the professional field but also helps to keep yourself healthy. Thus, it is obvious that successful professional life can also result in the perfect personal life, thereby helping you to keep your family members happy.
	While there are some people who consider life-long employment is necessary even if not fulfilled by the type of work. The main cause of believing this can be the assurance of receiving a constant salary. Usually, people need regular income for fulfilling their daily needs and a permanent job means a regular flow of money. Hence, it is apparent that human being will be able to satisfy his family needs, and can, therefore, live a happy satisfied life.
	After analysing these two points, it is believed that even though job satisfaction should be considered while accepting jobs, security is very much important for leading comfortable and stress-free life. Without a doubt, people will have a flourishing life if they do not have any tension of future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1371-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-374-how-can-we-make-an-ideal-teacher",
Essay 1057:
	It is widely admitted that ideal teacher is one of the most important factors for an educated and developed nation. We all know that good teachers enlighten our life and lead us to the way of success. No doubt, ideal teachers can be made through several ways. Chief among them are the university education and the good motives from the directors of the school.
	The first way how can we make ideal teachers is by a good education. It is an indisputable fact that a good education during university study brings about perfect teachers. If the students are taught by professional teachers, then they will become increasingly expert teachers in their major. Consequently, such students, when becoming teachers, will be ideal teachers and will produce high-quality educated students. In contrast, when students are taught by bad teachers, no progress will be made and, to some extent, the students’ education will dramatically deteriorate.
	The second method of creating an ideal teacher is a good motive. No wonder if we say that the good motive, especially by managers, pleases the teachers and makes them do their best in their work. Additionally, managers are fully responsible for their teachers. In other words, such managers should always praise their teachers whenever those teachers do anything well. In such way, teachers will feel that they are doing something great and will pursue their good. Hence, the students will get useful benefits from those excellent teachers.
	Thirdly, the talent of teaching is something many people are privileged with and those people should be selected and motivated to become teachers. Not all good students can become ideal and successful teachers and that should be kept in mind while selecting them. The government should increase the facilities for teachers so that talented students aspiring to become teachers and the education system of a country should be formed in such a way so that teaching becomes a lucrative and prestigious profession.
	In conclusion, ideal teachers are the backbones of the students and no one can deny the essential and vital role they play. With a good university education and a good motive, we can get perfect teachers. Such teachers will not only develop the students but also will immensely contribute to the growth of the community.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1370-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-373-the-importance-of-biodiversity-is-being-more-widely-recognised",
Essay 1058:
	Today, the number of species under extinction threat is increasing and that is showing us the importance of biodiversity.  Fortunately, it is not too late to maintain biodiversity. With small but effective changes we can save many species.
	First of all, reducing the water pollution can create a great relieve on water species. According to the biologists, the 80 % of all existing creatures are living in the water. Water Pollution is reducing the kinds and population of that creature day by day.
	Chemical and biological wastages are kept polluting fresh water reserves and seas. For example every year a million gallon of polluted water was discharged into the rivers and sea in Istanbul. Because, there were no sewer treatment facilities in Istanbul, the sea became too polluted and there was nearly no underwater life. After government decided and build sewer treatment facilities,
	Water reserves and sea have become clearer and it has a great impact on biodiversity. Today curious eyes can even see the dolphins in there. Another caution for maintaining biodiversity is forestation. Today most of the land creatures are need forests for living and forestation can create new living areas for many kinds of creatures, especially for mammals. The best example of it is the city of Abu Dhabi. İn the seventies, Emirate of Abu Dhabi decided to create a forest in the desert. After a well-organised forestation plan, they managed to create a forest and today it is a great attraction point to people who want to see the forest habitat. There are many kinds of creatures from mammals to endemic insects.
	As a result, today extinction is a great threat to many species. The pollution caused by people and deforestation causes great risks for many kinds of species. On the other hand, it is not too late for many of them. With small action, we can prevent the extinction of a lot of species and we can maintain the biodiversity.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1369-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-372-staff-who-worked-in-a-company-for-a-long-time-should-be-promoted",
Essay 1059:
	One of the reasons why companies choose to promote some employee is seniority. While the length of service is undoubtedly an important factor, my belief is it should certainly not be the only criterion for deciding who should be promoted. Rather it would be best for companies to have a more varied policy in this area. There are without question sound arguments for promoting employees who have been working for a company for a number of years.
	The first of these is that these more experienced employees would be able to adapt themselves to be in a higher position. As they would understand the culture and policies of the company better, they should be given priority to be in higher positions in a company. Again, on a practical level, if they were not promoted, they might well leave the company to find a higher position and earn a larger salary. This could have serious consequences for the company, which might lose a significant amount of business to its competitors.
	Despite these factors, there is a strong argument in favour of also promoting staff because of their performance. This can be seen by how some multinational companies use annual performance and development reviews when deciding on promotion. Under this system, a supervisor can set targets for an employee and if those targets are met, then the staff can be promoted, even if they are relatively junior. The benefit of this approach is that it encourages staff to work harder and rewards merit and not just slow service.
	In conclusion, there is no doubt a case for implementing a policy of promoting long serving members of staff, but I believe that it is also wise to take account of the performance of more junior members of staff.
Essay 1060:
	We all know that work is the food of life. There is no doubt that the experienced staff is far better qualified to a promotion than the fresh employee. It is taken for granted that the long-service employee has several potentials which help him to get a promotion contrary to the new employee. Thus many companies reward the employees who have been with them for a long. In my opinion, this is indeed a good idea for the motivation of the employee and for the improvement of the company.
	One of the reasons why the only experienced employee should get a promotion is that s/he knows many things about his/her job. For example, he can tackle any issue related to the scope of his work and can implement good solutions to such problems. Undoubtedly, such employee deserves the promotion due to his broad knowledge and experience. Another important issue is the employee loyalty towards the company and that should be rewarded.
	Another reason is that the experienced employee can communicate elegantly with people from different backgrounds. To illustrate, he is able to deal with everyone perfectly and this, without a doubt, is because of his long experience in his work. Consequently, he is the only one who can get the promotion.
	In conclusion, it cannot be denied that the experienced employee is the only one who deserves the promotion. As stated above, the experienced employee not only knows the tactics of his work but also can perfectly deal with people. Hence, he must be promoted.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1367-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-371-do-you-believe-that-societies-ought-to-enforce-capital-punishment",
Essay 1061:
	Is the death penalty an effective deterrent? I am completely against this kind of abuse.I am strongly opposing the capital punishment as it is inhuman.
	As you all are aware that human beings are prone to make mistakes from which they learn a lot. It's human psychology to rectify them over a period of time. Instead of imposing the death sentence, the convicted should be given a chance to take corrective measures. It is unmanly to execute a living being. This impacts the rise in violent crime. Disciplinary actions can be taken by thrashing some lower punishments on them. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1366-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-370-modern-communication-systems-benefit-many-people",
Essay 1062:
	Contemporary communication tools yield positive results for their consumers but a host of people refute this statement. While it is observed a sizeable minority of negative attitude toward consequences of communication devices, I believe that these facilities such as TV, the Internet, computers, smart phones etc. play an indispensable role in our life. 
	Mass communication bears a plethora of significant outcomes that include mass media, mobile, World Wide Web. First of all, a substantial majority of TV channels are producing various learning programs which their contents contain educating the public. As a prime example, tremendous televisions have illustrated driving rules via animation and short movies. Furthermore, TV and radio entertain an overwhelming number of individuals in every day. In addition, audiences can grasp beneficial information in a wide range of fields. Most importantly, we can considerably decline our costs and avoid wasting our time by using services of websites and TV news. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1365-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-369-majority-of-children-are-raised-by-their-grandparents-due-to-the-fact-that-their-parents-are-busy",
Essay 1063:
	In the past, one of the parents, usually mother, stay at home for looking after their children. However, with the increase in the career-oriented lifestyle, children had to stay with their grandparents. I believe that this arrangement has more negative effects than positive ones. In this essay, the manner in which parent-child relationship and the health of the young people is affected will be analysed.
	To begin with, children spending maximum time with their grandparents can afflict the relationship with their parent. A good illustration for this are the young people for various countries, particularly, India is being looked after by their grandparents while parents continue to focus on their career. Because of this, they do not have enough time to know their parents and fail to develop the bond of love with them. The negative implications of the pupils have been taken care by their grandparents are thus clear.
	Most of the times, children lose their grandparents when there are growing and hence can result in the health problems. The reason for believing this is that they loose their grandparents can make them feel lonely and they can find it difficult to connect with their parents. As a result, they can face the issues related to mental health such as depression at the early age. Thus, the link between the degradation of young children's health and the close relation with their grandparents is clear.
	From the above discussion, it is difficult to debunk that the bonding and the fitness of the child could be hampered if they have to spend an inordinate time with ageing grandparents. Therefore, it is expected that parents will prefer to stay with their child in the foreseeable future.
Essay 1064:
	In this hectic world, living cost is drastically increasing and that necessitates both parents to work hard to earn their daily living. Moreover, parents are concentrating on their career and continue their jobs even if they have children. Grandparents are the best choice or perhaps the only choice for such parents, although there are some disadvantages. In my opinion raising the children by grandparents is an acceptable fact and has ignorable negative effects.
	Obviously, grandparents are the trustworthy caretakers of their grandchildren. Parents can leave their children with them and work with peace of mind. They will feed them and take care of them same or more than they care their own children. In addition to that, parents can leave children at their home, needlessly to bring them to any daycare centres. Furthermore, it saves 20 percentage of family income as additional babysitting or day-care centre cost is saved. In the case of any minor ailments, grandchildren are cared well by grandparents.
	Consistently, grandparents have enormous experiences in upbringing their own children and they are successful parents. That is why they can up-bring their grandchildren as well. They are in many cases better decision makers and this quality make them ideal to be attached to their grandchildren. Researchers indicate that children brought up with the family members learn more values and morality than those who spend their day time in day-care centre. Grandparents take special care of their grandchildren and spend the whole day with them and that do not let the children miss their parents as they would have with a babysitter.
	Contradictory, there are some demerits of this trend also. First of all, children raised by the grandparents usually have weaker bonding and relationship with their parents. Children cannot distinguish the parents and grandparents at an early age which is an example of a bad parenting. Moreover, the grandparents are in older age and this is the time to rest and relax. In many cases, it is hard for them to take care of children. In addition generation gap is something that will affect many areas of the development of children.
	In conclusion, it is unavoidable in many cases that both parents need to contribute to earning to support the family. Raising children by grandparents is a welcomed trend and that will strengthen the family relationship.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1364-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-368-people-have-to-pay-a-fee-when-they-drive-their-cars-into-the-city-centre",
Essay 1065:
	In these days and ages, one of the major problems faced by developed cities is traffic congestion due to the staggering amount of car owners in these areas. As a result, drivers are charged a fee before entering the city centre in some places.
	Undoubtedly, this policy certainly comes with some positive impacts on the traffic. It is evident that with an extra charge applied upon driving into the city centre, drivers tend to become more serious while considering the necessity of getting into the town centre. Besides, activities, like carpooling or taking public transportation, are also practised more often by people. Consequently, there would be a dramatic improvement on the traffic condition as congestion is likely to occur less frequently.
	However, in my opinion, the detrimental sides of this policy definitely outweigh the benefits. First of all, it is logistically out of the question for the government to install the required equipment as it involves plenty of funds. On the other hand, this policy would also directly increase the financial burden of people. It is due to the fact that there are always people whose jobs need them to be constantly travelling around the city. While the rich drivers may be unaffected by this policy, those workers with an average amount of income would surely be troubled by the extra fee.
	To conclude, the solution mentioned above is way too extreme to be practised. In strong contrast, the government should provide free or low-cost public transportation into the city centre during peak hours so that it would end up benefiting more people.
Essay 1066:
	As is commonly understood in the big cities people need to pay some money when they are driving a car to reach the centre of the city. This has the purpose of reducing the total of cars which operated around the city. It is believed that a policy of reducing the number of cars will bring positive and negative impact for all the people. Personally, I will explain my perspective by giving supporting and opposing reason.
	Firstly, as we know that the number of the car in the city bring many advantages. If the cities applied a policy or rule about driving cars, some of the problems such as air pollution as well as traffic jam automatically reduced. At the same time, the policy will help the government in developing the percentage of public transportation used by the people. As a result industry of public transportation growing rapidly. Take Tokyo for instance, Tokyo applied a policy if the people bring their own car to the city centre. Caused by this policy, Tokyo grew significantly to become the smartest city with the lowest percentage of air pollution and traffic jam, development of public transportation reveals a sophisticated trend.  From this example, we can see that policy bring advantages to a city, even in the development of the city itself and public transportation business.
	On the other hand, the role by applied fee brings disadvantages for a city. In some countries this policy impact on the automotive industry. The trend of people to buy a car significantly decreased, as a result income and development of business automotive shows bad trend day by day. This case happens in South Africa when people must pay or take some role to drive their cars to the city centre. There are 65% of the total of the people who lived in Cape Town decided not to buy cars. Because most of them think that buy a car is useless. From this case, many automotive industries have collapsed and effect on the market and the economic development in South Africa.
	In conclusion, the policy is important to be applied in a city related to bringing a car. However, the policy must be considered the advantages and disadvantages. The government and the public sector, as well as business sectors in the transportation business, need to collaborate together, make arrangement and right policy who will bring good advantages to all sector. In this case government, people and businessman.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1362-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-367-should-governments-be-responsible-for-ensuring-that-everyone-can-get-access-to-the-internet",
Essay 1067:
	In these days and ages, surfing the Internet is no longer a luxury to most people. Having realised the unique benefits offered by the Internet, some employers or teachers even use it as a medium of sending out instructions. Therefore, I believe that governments should be in charge of making sure that all people enjoy the chance of using the Internet.
	Unavoidably, the necessity of being accessible to the Internet is frequently doubted by many people. It is generally argued that one may still live comfortably without the present of the Internet. Therefore, it should not be governments' responsibility on guaranteeing everybody can use the Internet. Furthermore, it would end up causing more political conflicts if governments were to take the task as it is totally unfair for most taxpayers. Besides, it is also logistically out of the question to achieve the final goal as it requires a large sum of the fund.
	However, in my opinion, the importance of the Internet should not be taken for granted by any age group. As far as education concern, the Internet allows students to seek for further knowledge and be aware of more global issues. In addition, getting familiar with the Internet also helps the older generation to get rid of the invisible generation gap which exists between different generations. To cut the cost to the lowest, governments can just install the basic equipment for Internet surfing in those national libraries or schools and make them available to the public.
	To conclude, being possible to get involved in the latest technology is always pleasurable while the contrary can be quite miserable. I therefore strongly think that individuals should be granted the chance to experience the usage of the Internet.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1361-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-366-why-do-you-think-teachers-give-homework-to-students",
Essay 1068:
	In today's completive world, students are constantly under pressure to perform well in studies and homework has become a part of today's study culture. Teachers make students do homework in order to reduce their load in school and parents are supportive of this practice because it keeps their children busy leaving little time for anything other than studies.
	Doing homework is important to a certain extent as it lets the students be in touch with the syllabus even after school hours and makes it easier for them to grasp lessons better the next day at school. Another benefit is that the parents can keep themselves up-to-date with their child's progress in school. For them, the more time their child spends on studies the better. Everyone wants their children to excel in studies to be prepared for the cut-throat competition that is on offer.
	What adults do not realise is that playtime is as important to children as is study time. It is important for children's psychological wellbeing to have variation in activities as opposed to being in front of the books all the time. Schools can add a revision period at the end of school hours so that the pupils finish revising the day's lessons and go home without having to worry about homework. In some countries, students are never given homework and are not event required to carry books back and forth between home and school.
	In my opinion, homework should be abolished in our country thus reducing a burden on students. This will also put an end to the overloaded bags that our children have to carry which is posing a risk to their physical health. Students should be given enough time for extra-curricular activities also.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1360-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-365-is-the-growing-use-of-communications-technology-a-positive-or-a-negative-development-for-society",
Essay 1069:
	In recent days, handphones and the Internet have become the necessity of many individuals. It is said that spending time playing these devices or surfing the Internet can be some unique recreational activities. This essay is going to examine the impacts of the communications technology to the community.
	Undoubtedly, mobile gadgets and the Internet can bring us great convenience. It is because, with a portable and user-friendly hand phones, we can contact each other at any time regardless of the locations. Besides, the Internet also made it easier for us to be informed of the latest and most stunning news without having to read the daily newspaper. Furthermore, with the widespread usage of the Internet, it takes us only a few moments before our problems are solved online as solutions are demanded from a staggering amount of the Internet users around the globe.
	However, in my opinion, the disadvantages of using latest communications technology definitely outweigh the advantages. It is generally reported that someone tends to become shy and seriously unsociable due to the long-term usage of cyber communications tools. Being influenced by the newest technology, the importance of direct communication is gradually being taken for granted. However, it is evident that the basic communication skills are essential to individuals especially those who work in the society. Without these skills, one may be left behind and thus lose the ability to be independent.
	In a nutshell, making use of the most up-to-date technology is pleasurable. However, in order for the best result to be expected, restrictions should be set in advance to avoid over-usage or abuses of the technology.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1359-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-364-education-standards-have-declined-in-recent-times",
Essay 1070:
	It is widely acknowledged that standards in reading and math have declined in numerous countries for the past few decades. The purpose of this essay is to explore the possible causes and to formulate suitable approaches to tackle this critical situation.
	Literacy is the ability to speak, write, read and listen in a way that allows people to communicate effectively and to make sense of the world around us; while numeracy is being capable of thinking logically, reasonably and able to use mathematics to meet the demands of everyday life. It is somewhat interesting that academic standards began to diminish around the time of the technology boom, with increasingly more automatized machines and gadgets to make life "easier". Perhaps it got a little bit too easy. Instant messaging allows quick communication and is relatively easy to use; however, it also prompted the usage of chatting acronyms. On efficacious solution to this problem is encouraging students to read a variety of text from various sources-newspapers, magazines, novels, recipes etc..., instead of only from the internet, this will boost their spelling and reading abilities.
	Another factor is simply that the education system has been modified for the purpose of generating more "rounded" students; therefore, music, arts, and gym are equally essential as reading and Math. Despite the good intentions, in order to make room for other subjects, literacy and mathematics hours and standards have been reduced. An effective approach is to adapt school curricula from other countries that have higher literacy and numeracy levels into our local study programs.
	To conclude, literacy and numeracy skills are intertwined with our daily lives, therefore it is of the utmost importance to maintain a certain level of standards.
Essay 1071:
	It would be quite right to profess that the declination of educational quality, particularly in literature and mathematics, has globally grabbed attention among the populace over the last decades. This essay will connote the excessive use of state-of-the-art technological devices by juveniles and lack of good teachers as main causes and submit legislating stricter rules for exploiting accurately modern facilities at schools and encouraging talented people to come in the teaching profession as solutions to draw a reasonable conclusion.
	According to a common perception among many, one of the fundamental reasons behind decreasing the level of standards concerning education lies in the fact that the young are used to utilise new electronic devices to carry out their assignments.  As a case in point, one nephew of mine is accustomed to using his smart mobile phone not only for straightening out all the mathematical tests but for accounting simplest math questions like multiplying two one-digit numbers. That being so, it is more likely that in no so long distant future, he would not be able to achieve abilities of problem-solving in the real world being needed in the job market. Besides, students are too busy to play video games or surfing internet that they do not feel interested to read books outside their academic syllabus. Thus their reading habit is a daunting issue these days. Again, the lack of quality teachers who can inspire students is another reason for this decreasing educational standard. Most teachers these days are after money and fame rather than enlighting new generations.
	It is obvious that it would not be possible to deal with such cataclysm by a single solution. Some, however, claim that by setting regulation concerning limited usage of technologic devices, particularly at educational centres could pave the road for improving training frameworks. To illustrate, in some European nations, some tough laws have been adopted by the higher ranking authorities in terms of forbidding the use of any kind of electronic facilities in classrooms, especially during the exams among pupils in elementary schools. They have correspondingly realised that the rate of students’ abilities for solving complicated issues gradually increased after a few months. Moreover, more literary works should be added in the syllabus to let students learn their own culture and custom through the reading of that literature. Finally, more facilities should be added for the teacher so that people do not come to teaching profession only because they did not find anything better. In many countries, very few talented people come to the teaching profession in junior level only because the government has not allocated enough facilities for those teachers.
	By way of conclusion, being one of the practical and effective methods of overcoming the dilemma of a low quality of education standards ranging from literature to mathematics, legislating stricter rules for youngsters not exploiting modern facilities at school and attracting more quality teachers could be considered as two effective solutions to cope with somewhat this negative trend.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1356-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-363-benefits-of-having-more-televised-sport-are-greater-than-the-disadvantages",
Essay 1072:
	Modern day technology has enabled us to be up to date on international affairs across the globe, including sports events. Based on the fast progression of satellite engineering, it is safe to presume that the current amount of television coverage will undoubtedly increase further in the years to come. Live sports events have already been influenced by the phenomenon; there is, however, both benefits and drawbacks.
	Some have called television "man's new best friend", with its spectacular live-streaming abilities, making it possible for viewers to savour the excitement and thrills of a being at a live event at the comfort of one's couch. Not to mention, constant replays also breaks down the invisible time zone barriers. Another bonus is the possibility of abolishing "sports racism"－extortionate ticket prices usually meant only the privileged went to live sports events, thus inspiring more people to participate in sports events.
	On the contrast, the disadvantages of having so many sports on television are the general decline in ticket sales, this is especially evident in smaller sports and games. In addition, without a live crowd to cheer them on, it will unquestioningly have an impact on the athletes' morale. If circumstances worsen, it just might put minor leagues or teams out of business.
	While televised sport has created many opportunities, it is also responsible for irreversibly changing the nature of live sports events. Whether it is a change for good or not, it is in my opinion that the benefits slightly outweigh the disadvantages.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1355-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-362-what-are-the-benefits-and-drawbacks-of-studying-abroad",
Essay 1073:
	It must be admitted that education is the first route a student take to build his future. Some students prefer to pursue their study overseas while others want to further their study in their countries. Undoubtedly, studying abroad has its advantages and disadvantages. For many reasons, which will be discussed in this essay, I strongly believe that the advantages are far more than the disadvantages.
	One advantage of studying abroad is mingling with the different types of the cultures and customs of that country. To illustrate, when a student travels abroad for study, he will be completely exposed to positive traditions and cultures of such people. Consequently, he will get useful benefits from such customs when he returns to his homeland. One example for that is my friend who, before one year, travelled to a country for the purpose of the study. There, he acquired many positive things from that country such as respect of regulations and the kind treatment of people. Therefore, when he came back to his country, his family was immensely affected by his new positive merits to the point that it begins to apply them.
	Another advantage of studying overseas is the massive benefits a student gets in his major. In fact, he will encounter the elite professors and academics from which he will acquire a good knowledge and experience in his field. Accordingly, the student will spend less time studying his major due to those highly educated professors. Hence, it can be said that such student will be highly respected by his people when he returns to his home. Moreover, his immense knowledge and experience will dramatically contribute to the growth and development of his country.
	From the other side, it can be found that travelling abroad has minor negative effects on the students; some of which are getting involved in unethical activities or abusing drugs. Those bad things might make the students deviate from their original morals and traditions. However, this mainly depends on the student himself. If he follows these bad routes, he will not concentrate on his study anymore. Therefore, he will acquire the bad habits instead of his golden goal, namely study. Also, his future and previous aspirations will be utterly lost.
	In conclusion, studying abroad has its pros and cons. However, as I stated above, that the advantages are the prominent feature. Subsequently, every student, if intended to study overseas, should pick out the good and beneficial merits from that country and extremely abstain from the ugly habits or customs. Accordingly, will get a multicultural educated and prosperous generation of which we will greatly proud.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1354-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-361-government-should-make-more-efforts-to-promote-alternative-sources-of-energy",
Essay 1074:
	The global requirement for energy is on increase at very high speed due to increase in demand, mainly from fast-growing economies such as China and India. So, it is vitally important that government around the world explore and invest in alternative sources of energy. The need for alternative renewable energy stems from increasing global warming due to the usage of gasoline, the current energy source is not sustainable for the long term and alternative energies may become cheaper or at least close to the cost of gasoline used today.
	The main reason for the alarming rise in global warming is the usage of gasoline for vehicles and factories. As we are aware the impact of global warming is numerous. Such instances of melting of ice-mountains in the North polls, rising of sea level, more floods in some countries while droughts in the other part of the world and so on. So, it is crucial that states spend money on developing biofuels which are environmentally friendly and they are renewable.
	The next factor in is the depletion of natural resources. Today, gasoline is available only in few countries around the world. The extraction of petrol from the earth increases every year because of the rise in global demand. For sure, this natural resource will not be available forever. So, it is a must that countries with high technology develop various sources of energy in order not to run out of petrol in few decades. There are some initiatives from many countries in this direction; for instance, development of solar energy. This source of energy has become much affordable today than 10 years back. Hence it is important to develop this energy source so that many ordinary people will be able to afford to pay.
	The last important reason for the requirement for various sources of power is increased is the cost of petrol because of higher demand and reduction in the level of natural deposit underneath at the earth. When the countries around the world spend sufficient funds in developing technical know-how of bio and solar energies and also provide farmers with subsidies, the prices of these alternative sources of energies may become cheaper or close to the cost of petrol. This will encourage public to switch to utilise other sources of energies.
	In conclusion, it is imperative that countries around the world invest sufficient fund in developing different sources of energies as the current source of energy increases the global warming and it is not sustainable for a long time and also this energy will become very expensive in near future.
Essay 1075:
	Many people believe that the government should emphasise more on alternative energies these days. To a certain point, I would agree with that, but the government should also have measurable calculation before they shift the energy resources.
	For a number of reasons, it is believed that the government should have extensive promotions on alternative sources of energy. Firstly, it is a fact that many new energy resources are friendlier to the environment rather than the existing sources of energy. For example, the usage of the solar panel system is booming these days due to they are not producing any carbon monoxide. Secondly, the most common sources of energy that people use nowadays are not renewable. For example, most countries use oil, gas and coal as their sources of energy currently, and we all know that these energies are limited. As millions of people are using these sources every day, it will run out in the future. We should be concerned with how the future generation will get their sources of energies by thinking of alternative resources.
	On the other hand, before the government promotes these alternative energies, they must have a well-prepared feasibility study. They must ensure that those alternative sources of energy are safe for the environment. For instance, when the authority decides to use a nuclear reactor as a replacement of a diesel electric plant, they must ensure that it is safe. Any leakage from the plant would cause a disaster for the whole nation, just like in the case of the Chernobyl or Fukushima plants. And then the government should also think how it will impact the unemployment rate. When new alternative energies are promoted, it means that there is a risk that the demand of existing energies will be reduced. Consequently, large energy companies such as Chevron or Shell will reduce their employees. The government should have properly anticipated, plan and have the right solution for it.  
	In conclusion, to a certain extent, I would agree that the government should put more emphasis on new alternative energy these days, but it should also be supported with measurable and feasible studies.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1353-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-360-the-birth-rate-in-most-developed-countries-is-predicted-to-fall",
Essay 1076:
	The predictions show that the birth rate in industrial nations will decline over the next half of the century. Estimations have reported that over 30% of technologically advanced societies will get 65 years old and over by 2030. This alarming trend leads to decreasing population, tax incomes and active labour.
	Falling birth rate yields a plethora of hurdles. At first, the low rate of pregnancy among women results in declining the population of the country. Furthermore, this hitch causes the reduction of taxable incomes, so the government must spend a huge amount of budget for medical care and social services in order to support old people. Finally, the third obstacle of this condition is the plunge of an active workforce.
	On the other hand, economic experts have suggested a host of solutions for this upheaval. The first effective solution is fortifying incentive policies for rising fertility rate among young couples. As a prime example, the government can pay a subsidy for any newborn kids. In addition, the second technique of problem-solving that can reform this dilemma is expediting immigration of young skilled workers and experienced engineers from less developed countries. Nowadays, a wide spectrum of states implements this policy. As an outstanding instance, Australia has facilitated the entrance of migrants. Thus the government publishes a list of required labour in certain fields based on specific criteria annually.
	In conclusion, the drop of birth rate escalates a number of challenges such as shortage of labour forces, the peak of old age group and the exacerbate of social services and health cares. These disastrous crises can be modified by executing beneficial methods like the financial support of couples for raise of fertility and accelerating of immigration processes.
Essay 1077:
	It is predicted that the natality of most advanced countries will drop in the next 50 years. It is forecasted that by the end of 2030, more than 30% of the population in those countries will be aged 65 and above. The following essay will discuss what will happen if the prediction is true, and some of the solutions that can be done immediately to address the issue.
	Many experts are predicting that in the next 50 years about one-third of the people in developed countries will be the elderly generation. For a number of reasons, the ageing population and scarcity of working class population will become a serious problem for those countries. Firstly, they will face a lack of productive people problem which is important for economic development. With the shortage of productive labourers and professionals, it will be difficult for them to boost the economic sector, as factories will face difficulties in recruiting productive workers. Secondly, as the number of the senior people will be increasing each year, it means that the government will be spending more. The government will need additional funds for their pension plan, retirement house and medication facilities. Consequently, the government might increase the tax rate which will become a burden for the young generation.  
	There are some soluble solutions that governments could consider to prevent the negative consequences of this issue. One of them is that by providing additional facilities for their residents to have children at an earlier age. It is a fact that most of the people in advanced countries have children in their late thirties or early forties. By having children in their mid-twenties, it will shorten the time gap between the senior and the young people. Another solution is by giving subsidies and tax exemptions for families that have young children. It is hoped that it will trigger families to have more children in their young age. Lastly, these countries could also accept young and productive immigrants from other countries who are qualified and well educated. Many advanced countries have done this, such as Australia, New Zealand and Canada and the immigrants have had a positive impact on the economic growth of these countries.  
	In conclusion, many people are predicting that most developed countries will face ageing problem in the future. It is obvious that the ageing problem might become a serious treat for them, especially in their economic sectors and in the social formation. However, there are some solutions that governments could consider, and some of them are by persuading their people to have more children in the young age and accepting qualified immigrants from other countries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1349-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-359-while-studying-some-students-take-weekend-or-evening-jobs",
Essay 1078:
	Meeting expenses while being a student has been a challenge. Doing a part-time work to accommodate daily needs has advantages as well as disadvantages which need to be weighed before making a choice.
	The benefits are ease of fee payment and additional pocket money. In this expensive world, paying a course fee is an insurmountable obstacle for the middle and lower class society. Hence, it has become inevitable for students to contemplate another source of income. Another chief reason is pocket money for personal expenditure. Most children like to possess extra cash at their disposal because it gives some flexibility and independence in choosing things they want to buy and to satisfy their little desires.
	On the flip side, working after studies can cause stress and also trigger deviation from studies. Doing a job beyond school hours could have an adverse effect on the mental health of a student due to a large number of hours that are spent on stressful activities. Further, deterioration of health could lead to depression and increased anxiety. Another demerit is a distraction from the mainstream which is education. Few students could get lured to part-time work in search of easy money and gradually shift focus from school work to temporary job as they taste the benefits of money. This enticement could seriously mislead them to become aimless citizens.
	To recapitulate, there are both merits and demerits to doing an additional job. I opine that students have to carefully introspect and monitor their situation and take an approach tailor-made for them as one strategy does not fit all the pupils. If they need to work due to a poor financial background, they must strike a balance between earning extra money and studying, which assures that there would no side effects due to side income.
Essay 1079:
	Apart from financial independence, there are so many other benefits of doing a part time job. Students get the experience of working somewhere as an employee before completing studies. Students get an idea about how to manage study and job together. So, thus they learn time management as well. They become more mature and responsible towards their life. Sometimes, it makes them proud to their selves. Par time weekend job keeps students focused on their needs and thus help them support their expenses. This also creates a savings mentality among them from an earlier age. They become self-dependent and gain valuable experience from their jobs.  
	Contradiction to the above-discussed benefits, sometimes it may affect studies. Students may get stressed because of the burden of work. Sometimes they cannot manage both responsibilities very well. Many universities ask to attend classes regularly without fail. Generally, examination also puts too much pressure on students. Universities should provide guidance to the students and support them to find a part time job. Universities should have tied up with different business firms or organisations which again provide support to the students.
	So, I conclude that one should identify own requirement and circumstances to decide whether to do a job or not.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1348-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-358-obesity-is-a-major-disease-prevalent-among-children",
Essay 1080:
	In this modern era, children, unfortunately, endure some ailments that they are known as adults aches such as overweight. There are various reasons behind it. This illness originates from diet, sedentary lifestyle and genetics. I personally believe that three critical reasons of unhealthy diet, sedentary lifestyle and genetics considerably contribute to the development of such diseases in teenagers.
	The first cause of obesity is fatty food. Todays, most of the children are interested in junk food and fizzy drinks like sandwiches, chips and coke. These kinds of foods are not nutritious. Furthermore, a huge number of parents buy fast food for their children instead of preparing calorie-rich food at home. This issue can be solved by purchasing food from traditional restaurants (that they cook local foods), banning junk foods and advertising healthy foods in mass media, schools and textbooks.
	The second reason for obesity is an inactive lifestyle. The use of technological devices has gradually risen among children. They spend most of the time watching TV or playing video games on a computer, so the progress of these tools has led to declining the physical activities. This obstacle can be resolved by paying attention to bodily activities in schools and encouraging children to participating in sporting events. Moreover, parents can restrict playing video games on weekdays. In addition to this, the government can compel mass communication to advertise physical exercises.
	The third factor of obesity is genetics. Although genetics play a significant role in obesity of children, we cannot change or fortify our genetics. But human beings especially parents must visit genetics experts or do genetics tests before their child is born.
	In conclusion, obesity derives from several considerable components like foods, sedentary lifestyle and genetics. Any type of these elements demands effective solutions in order to cure this organic disorder.
Essay 1081:
	Over the last few decades, some countries have reported an overall increase in the average weight of people with more percentage in children and adolescents. It was earlier thought to be a disease of developed countries such as UK, US and other European countries but now the similar trend is also seen in some of the developing countries like India, China and other Asian countries.
	The foremost reason of the problem lies in the food habits. Traditional and local diet were quite balanced and used to provide an appropriate amount of calories, Minerals and fibres in the diet. Now due to globalisation and influence of media have changed the way we eat.
	Ready to cook meals are good to taste and can be easily prepared in no time. However, they contain preservatives and lack the freshness of homemade food. Fresh leafy vegetables and fruits have virtually disappeared from our plates.
	Many people in today’s world are physically inactive and live a sedentary life. Earlier, a lot of emphases was given on outdoor activities and games as football, cricket, and also working in farms. There were plenty of playgrounds available for sporting activities. Nowadays, most of the children are glued to TV, the Internet for watching TV shows and playing games. As we progress in the field of technology more, we have become lazy, inactive and sedentary.
	This lack of physical activity and changed eating habits, both have contributed to increase in the incidence of obesity all around the world.
	To tackle this problem is of utmost importance and needs definite action. Parents are the key to solving this issue. Promoting good eating habits and preparing balanced diet is essential. It is also a time to stop junk food. Educating children about benefits of playing outdoor games and then restoring a balance between calorie consumption and energy expenditure is the ultimate solution.
Essay 1082:
	Obesity among children has dramatically increased over the last few years in developing countries. This is an alarming situation, which should be controlled at its earliest. It is a mutual responsibility of both individual and government to identify the reasons of this vulnerable disease and offer solutions to rectify it.
	Nowadays, the trend of hotel going has drastically increased. Peoples do not like to cook at home. Children have become addicted to junk foods such as burger, pizza, grilled chicken etc. One of the reasons is that both parents are working simultaneously that is why they have less time to cook at home. Furthermore, rise in technological development steadily eliminate the concept of physical routine works from our lives. Children more opt towards computer games, mobiles and gadgets than playing any sports or doing exercises. Lack of these activities is the primary reason for obesity.
	In order to control this problem, physical education should be mandatory at the school level. Each individual is required participate in any sports activity on daily basis for thirty to forty minutes. This will definitely improve their health and mind. Apart from that, parents should encourage their children for playing their favourite sports. In addition to this, they should be served with fruits and vegetables which are the healthy source of vitamins and irons.
	In conclusion, I would like to say that obesity could be controlled by changing our lifestyle and eating habits. Parent's attention and care could contribute a lot in this regards. The role of government cannot be neglected while addressing this issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1347-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-357-globalization-affects-the-world-s-economies-in-a-very-positive-way",
Essay 1083:
	However globalization promotes worldwide economies positively, the governments should be paid attention to its negative aspects. While it is argued that globalization causes detrimental results, I believe that it produces great breakthroughs though authorities should take care about harmful outcomes of globalizing.
	Globalization has a beneficial influence on our lives. Globalization develops local economies. So, it helps nations to decline an unemployment rate and raise economic growth. Furthermore, globalized economy advances technology. For example, when a multinational company establishes a factory in a developing country, the new equipment, the new management skills and job vacancies are all in the best interest of the local society. Moreover, globalization has transformed the world into global village. As a result, people all over the world can communicate together easier than the past by internet and satellite TV.
	On the other hand, nobody can deny the devastating consequences of globalization. One of the crucial sides is a cultural shock. Worldwide networks and televisions have severely affected young people. These facilities have escalated cultural differences and generation gaps. For instance, when young aged persons watch popular superstars like singers, actors, actresses etc., on satellite channels. They imitate their behaviours, clothes, etc., that it leads to misbehaviours among adolescents. In addition, another critical impact of globalizing is the danger of epidemic diseases which can easily spread because of faster transportation and increase in the number of tourists. This statement is proved in the recent bird's flu disease which has infected most Asian countries over a short period of time.
	In conclusion, although globalization has sparked a heated debate in recent decades whether it is a blessing or a curse, I believe that globalization is playing an increasingly useful role in today's communities but we should not ignore destructive side effects of globalization. As a matter of fact, impoverished nations should provide required infrastructures and benchmark successful developing countries such as Brazil and China in order to decrease the disadvantages of globalization.
Essay 1084:
	Mixed opinions exist among people in relation to how globalisation influences the economies of the world. Some argue that it is evident that globalisation has brought dramatic economic growths and more employment opportunities around the world, particularly in the developing countries. However, there are criticisms raised to remind people of negative impacts that are caused by globalisation.
	Economy and employment have been thriving in some developing countries for the last 30 years since globalisation first formed its concept. Countries, such as China, India, and South Africa, which had once struggled with economic developments, are largely affected when most giant international corporations moved to nations where tax rates are lower and labour rates are cheaper. This particular wave has created enormous new businesses in less developed countries. Therefore, both economics and employments have been promoted significantly by globalisation.
	However, some economists and sociologists believe that globalisation has not created jobs globally; rather, it simply shifted employment opportunities from developed countries to developing countries. As a result, when China is experiencing high job growth, The United States, on the other hand, is suffering from the high unemployment rate.
	They also claim that globalisation encourages dependency on other countries so that if one country’s economy collapses, it is very likely that other countries’ economies will be damaged as well. The 2008 global economic crisis had well demonstrated how this dependent relationship worked very negatively among countries during the crisis.
	In conclusion, globalisation plays a major role in pushing economic and employment developments forward in developing countries; however, evidence has suggested that it has negative impacts on industrialised countries in terms of economic and labour market growths. Moreover, the unhealthy dependence among countries is another concern in relation to globalisation.
Essay 1085:
	Globalization has benefited most of the countries. However, everything has two sides, globalization may also have disadvantages. In this essay, I will discuss both the pros and cons of globalization in today's world.
	 First of all, globalization has greatly influenced the world's economy in many positive ways.  Most of the businesses are becoming increasingly international. Globalization allows a free trade practice. With the unlimited export of goods, the market of a country will get larger.  The unlimited import will also allow citizens to have access to imported products.  Furthermore, with foreign investments in a country, a rise in employment will follow.  No one can deny that the positive aspects of globalization will help the countries' economy to prosper.  Moreover, if more people will be employed, this could result in a low poverty rate in the developing countries, like the Philippines.
	On the other end of the spectrum, globalization may also harm business industry of other countries that cannot compete for as much versus the multinational companies. Thus, small business and medium scale establishments may have to close down.  As a result, globalization can also lead to unemployment and exploitation. Followed by this, other companies may move to other countries where labour is cheap. Because of the globalization, the traditional way of life and simplicity are getting washed away and people in developing countries are mimicking the western cultures which might lead to a devastating situation on a countries heritage and tradition. The locally made products are being replaced by the international brands and that has a very negative and long-term effect on a countries business growth.  
	In conclusion, I believe that globalization as a concept has noble intentions and is beneficial to countries that have developed fully and are ready to compete in the world market. Nevertheless, governments and companies should use a fair approach by taking appropriate steps for the country to become ready and to engage in a free trade economy around the world.
Essay 1086:
	Globalization is a comparatively newer trend and it has brought countless benefits to our modern life. The brighter side of globalization reduces the disparity and distance between countries around the world whereas the darker side also needs assessment carefully.
	Obviously, with the impact of globalization trade and travel around the world have become easier, comfortable and easily accessible. Air route travel is now affordable to common people within a fraction of hours people can reach their destiny. Branded International products are available to all countries, for instance, people can buy Mac Donald's products from their own local market. Trade and industry have dramatically developed and created gigantic job vacancies. The relationship between the nations has improved and nations can now easily maintain a friendly relationship with other. Thus the economic disparity between the nations has been narrowed with the advantages of globalization.
	On the other hand, it is argued that the wealthier countries are becoming wealthier due to the advantages they are getting from globalization. They can begin their roots in developing or underdeveloped countries and utilise the natural raw materials from there and become more and more affluent. Coca-Cola Company in India is the greatest illustration to this. With the impact of globalization more and more new products are being available in market and people have choices. As a result, there is a greater competition in the market. Consequently, local trades might not survive in long run and this has negative consequences on many local businesses. Brain drain seems to have become a common policy and phenomenon observed throughout the all developing countries. The local traditions and cultures are in jeopardy due to the enormous influence of world media and TV channels.
	Putting everything into consideration, although there are many cones of globalization, I believe that the pros are more prominent and obvious. It is a welcoming trend due to the advantages it offers. As long the international bonding is strong, it is a positive trend and the chances of conflict between the nations have declined which would present a better world to the upcoming generations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1346-should-wealthy-nations-be-required-to-share-their-wealth",
Essay 1087:
	Some school of thought believe that strong economies should aid the poor countries in terms of supporting them in their primary needs, while some others think it is due to the local governments to deal with such internal problems. Although both the parties have some strong justifications to support their ideas, I personally agree with the first group more because of several key factors including lack of resources in such poor economies, the fact that we are living in a global society.
	The first important point I would like to mention is the fact that most of the poor economies are suffering from lack of having enough facilities and resources in the fields such as education and food. As the first may lead to making them even poorer and also increases the number of criminal actions and even worse in some cases potentially making some people joining terroristic groups. While the latter causes several unpleasant results such as children disability and death.
	Another important thing is we should not forget all the people in the world are part of one community, the human being. Regardless of all the things makes us different, we all share the same biology. Therefore, as a human everybody should try his/her best to do what he can to make the world a pleasant place for the others. Moreover, as it mentioned above, some of the negative results such as terrorism may directly affect the other nations including first world countries.
	To put everything in a nutshell, supporting the poor countries to make a better life for their people will cause several pleasant results not only domestically but in some cases internationally and more importantly, it all is justified by humanity.
Essay 1088:
	Although there is a wide disparity in the resources available to the people living in different countries, still, I would argue that the government should be accountable for fulfilling its citizens day to day needs.
	It is imperative that the government in each country is held responsible for providing its citizen basic needs. Firstly, if help is always at hand, some governments may not put in all their efforts to meet both hands, while, few others are going an extra mile to cater for their own as well as the other nations demand. Poor nations can borrow money from world bank to set up, for instance, short scale industries to create employment for its people and boost the economy in long run. Various other steps can always be taken by venturing in trade and commerce for well- being of the nation.
	Secondly, it may seem unfair to the citizens of the nation providing support that the taxes paid by them for the development of their own nation are being used towards others. Furthermore, it is also a herculean task to categorise all the nations into rich and poor, and then to select a criterion to decide the priority among nations seeking help. Despite all that, we all should be ready to offer help to a nation in times of crisis that arise due to unforeseen circumstances, for instance, floods, earthquake, hurricanes.
	In conclusion, the common needs of a man should be looked after by the ruling government he chose for himself while in times of calamities, we all should stand united for each other.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1345-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-355-many-of-the-diseases-which-afflict-people-who-do-office-jobs",
Essay 1089:
	Nowadays hard work dwindles as more people work in offices. Although we suffer less from the pains and tiredness of manual work, we are in fact afflicted by the sedentary lifestyle of office work, as many critics suggest. Personally, I agree with this idea.
	For people working in offices, sitting for too long in the soft chair or sofa is the direct cause of a number of diseases. As is often the case, workers in offices tend to deal with their work either by using the computer or by checking documents and writing reports. And all such work requires a person to sit in a chair by a desk for a long time. This will cause backaches, neck aches as few people have a good sitting habit and it is even harder for them to sit properly in a long time. Secondly, sitting for a long time means they cannot exercise their body or simply stretch out their arms and legs often, which results in bad blood circulation and even obesity. Worse still, they can suffer from psychological pressure for lack of exercises that are essential to personal happiness.
	However, some argue that sedentary lifestyle in offices is not the direct cause of a lot of diseases. They claim that although office work requires them to sit for long, they can relax and exercise their body after work and at weekends. The fallacy in this argument is that it thinks many people are so energetic that they are eager to exercise themselves after a long day of exhaustion due to their work, not to mention that at weekends people are not always free to do anything they want to do.
	In conclusion, it is reasonable to say that sedentary lifestyle of office work is the direct cause of a number of diseases. Work takes up most of our time, and if it does not make enough time and space for proper physical adjustments and relaxation, we will not be able to lead a healthy lifestyle. For employers, they should come up with some useful strategies to deal with the problem.
Essay 1090:
	The number of individuals suffering from various ailments is increasing rapidly around the world. It is believed that majority of people getting affected are those who have opted for desk-bound work. I completely agree that these infections are usually caused as the outcome of the stationary workplace. In this essay, we will analyse how minimum movement of the body can result in physical and mental problems.
	To begin with, the people with maximum hours of seated work perform minimum body movements. For instance, if an individual is working in company with working hours of 9 daily, the most of his awake time is spent sitting at one place. As a consequence of this, the body can become stiff and most if its movement starts restricting with the time. Thus, it is apparent that human body will become weak and hence can be easily harmed physically.
	In addition to this, spending most of the time at the same location can cause boredom for an individual. A good illustration for this is the people who regularly work in front of a computer for about 9 hours and after going back home completely avoid turning on Computer. On the whole, staying seated at the same place without motions can make them feel irritated and can affect their mental wellbeing. Evidently, people can lose control over them soon and can cause negative influence towards the society.
	Of course, it is obvious that a person with a job that requires little movements are the one who is easily infected with different diseases such as heart disease, depression and so on. In other words, these ailments distress people with unmoving desk jobs. It is thus hoped that companies will sanitise their staff about harms of not taking regular breaks in long working hours.
Essay 1091:
	The new era brings technology to feet of human kind. These advances in technology help us to spend our lifetime with sedentary jobs which don't require making movements during working hours and travel between cities. But, unfortunately, this comfort in our lives affects our health and cause prevalent diseases. These diseases decrease our happiness tremendously. In this essay, I will examine root causes of these diseases and inform you about ways to avoid them even living in a steady lifestyle.
	First of all, mostly seen diseases among computer science professionals are "carpal tunnel" which happens due to excessive usage of the mouse during working hours. One of the symptoms of this illness is feeling pain during usage of the mouse. Luckily, it could be avoided easily by usage of the mouse pad with wrist support. Secondly, many monitoring professionals should require sending countless e-mails and those might end up with joint calcifications because of high rates of keyboard usage. But, this issue could refrain easily by creating scripts in order to decrease keyboard usage or should be minimised by creating templates for all necessary e-mails only for once.
	Furthermore, each steady workplace employees are in danger of spine issues because of standing still on a chair for hours. However, abstaining from these issues is possible by strolling around in regular breaks and exercising regularly even when you are sitting on your chair. Another disease which could happen because of sedentary life is a hernia and it is really common among engineers. Eliminating risks to secure ourselves from this issue is only possible by changing our habits. For example sitting on a yoga ball is on the rise since last decade in order to refrain from a hernia. Even if you don't like to use it, you could easily avoid this illness by sitting properly which are recommended by orthopedicians as well.
	Last but not least, common illnesses among steady workers is obesity. This disease is considered as illness of future and it leads to variety of diseases from heart attack to organ failures. But, the underlying reason to become obese is an uncontrolled eating habit and it could be easily obtained by regular exercises and follow your doctor's instructions.
	In conclusion, I believe that lifestyle is a choice and many of aforementioned diseases could be avoided by changing our lifestyles. Due to all of my explanations, I strongly disagree that diseases are not the result of sedentary lifestyle.
Essay 1092:
	Muscle and skeleton diseases are prevalent among office workers. According to orthopedicians, reasons of these disorders include wrong posture, lacking movement or repeated movements. As an office worker myself who suffer from severe muscle pain, I totally agree with the doctors and in this essay, I will examine the reasons and suggest some measures to fight them.
	First and foremost, the main reason for these disorders is the wrong posture. Office workers spend most of their times looking at the computer screen with their hand sticking on the keyboard and leaning onwards. Sitting in such position can cause the cartilage between two vertebras shift and this condition is known as a very painful disease that can even lead to paralyzation - a hernia. However, this problem can easily be avoided by adopting proper sitting techniques that can be found on the internet and learned from an orthopedician.
	Secondly, lacking movement and repeated movements can also be accountable for these diseases. Force applied on same bones at same angles or same bones rubbing each other frequently due to same repeated actions can have an abrasive impact on cartilages and this condition is known as calcification. To combat this disease, office workers should stroll around regularly, stretch their muscles and bones and refrain from repeated movements.
	My personal conclusion is that muscle and skeleton disorders are inevitable for all office workers who are not aware of proper sitting and overdo some movements. However, measures to combat these problems are divulged to the public by orthopedicians and they should be carried out by everyone.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1344-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-354-if-an-employee-wants-to-smoke-they-must-leave-the-building-and-smoke-outside",
Essay 1093:
	Human nature is open to a variety of addictions such as alcohol and smoking. Some of these addictions affect working quality and as a result of this, alcohol is banned from workplaces. On the other hand, because of smoking doesn't affect working, employees are allowed to use it during their shift. But, during last two decades government approved a new bill which forbids smoking inside buildings and as a result of this, people who would like to smoke cigarettes should leave the building first. This essay is going to examine which solutions could be used to close time gap for required to leave the building.
	First of all, using the same amount of breaks is right of each employee. It should be calculated somehow. For instance, employers should give break time counter to each employee and inform them that if they will go outside, a counter will calculate total time spent outside. If an employee works without breaks, he or she should receive incentives such as bonus or company internal usage points
	Secondly, employers might reorganise employees desk near to exist to prevent wasted times during walking out of the building. Furthermore, companies might add a balcony on each floor in order to create smoking zones. This idea might be useful for employees, but I this solution might create massive expenses during construction. Moreover, some companies like "Google" allow their employees to work without defined desks and this gives mobility to employees. This might be a solution without spending any to avoid wasted times for smokers. Lastly, there might be a program to deter employees from smoking while giving them chance to smoke during work hours. For instance, employees who joined the program quits smoking, completes the program successfully and they receive incentives such as bonus cash or company points. This solution has benefits to each side and it could be used for the betterment of life and working standard.
	In conclusion, there are a variety of solutions to avoid the smoking issue and both sides should try their best to fix it before it became pandemic.
Essay 1094:
	Smoking is such a bad habit that it affects the working efficiency and health of the workers and smoking in the office premises brings potential harms to colleges’ health and emotional well-being. Positive solutions should be taken to tackle this worrying trend.
	Employees are paid refer to their actual working hours in most industrialised areas. If a worker who smokes and takes frequent breaks during working hours should be either salary-deducted or should work extra hours to compensate the time s/he spends for smoking. It is fair enough because there is a saying that how much you will be paid depends on how much you work.
	In conclusion, smokers should pay for themselves if they hope to smoke in the working and employers have the responsibility to provide staff welfare for them to help to form a good working or living habit.
Essay 1095:
	It is a common concern among employers that their smoker employees take too much break and this few times should be counted as non-effective hours and even they should not be paid for them. In my opinion, employers are free to choose all of their employees among non-smokers and if they want to employ a smoker, they should not whine about some short breaks that they take to satiate their needs.
	Employers oddly believe that more someone works more s/he will earn. Although this belief turns out true for machines, it does not apply to the human resource. On the contrary, more a human being work, more personal needs arise and less productive would the work be. Employers that are seeking for productivity should appreciate the necessity of breaks, even if they believe that smoking is a bad habit, and provide enough breaks for anyone rather than counting employees who try to buy some time for them.
	If there is an honest concern for smokers' health and justice for non-smokers, probably the best solution would be that to encourage smokers to quit smoking. For instance, the sixth clean month of an old smoker could be awarded a little platelet or a cake that they can share with their colleagues to celebrate their healthy new lives. As a corollary to this, the number of breaks would decline.
	In conclusion, my personal view is that breaks are beneficial for birth employees and employers since the refreshed employee would remain productive. Therefore employers should think about giving more breaks to everyone rather than arguing on the breaks that smokers take. If they are not content with the frequency of breaks, they also have an option not to employ the smoker or they can try to wean their employees away from smoking by giving some incentives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1343-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-353-many-businesses-find-it-very-difficult-to-assign-enough-time-and-resources-to-research",
Essay 1096:
	With the increasing complexity in the field of science and technology, it has been proved that in order to survive in this global economy, businesses should spend more in the field of research. However, most of the times, companies find it difficult to allocate adequate resources to research and development. In this essay, we will discuss how the government could play an essential role to encourage companies spending in this area.
	Firstly, the governments could allocate a special grant/aid for the research in their field of interest, this way they can attract potential researchers in the field in doing so both business and country would benefit. As we know about government grants in European countries for research in every field of science, commerce and technology.
	Secondly, governments could arrange a poster presentation competition, awarding the successful candidates with the opportunity to study further as well as of publishing their work in some reputable journal. For instance, government-funded poster competitions occur in every public sector business school in Karachi each year. This has provided opportunities to the bright candidates and has yielded us with an invaluable amount of research in this sector.
	Moreover, legislators could arrange finances from other foreign investors in their desired field of interests. As for example, African countries received funds from US government for carrying out researches in the fields of science and commerce.
	Overall I believe that research is pivotal for any nation's development and there are several ways through which governments can play their essential role in solving the issue of resources.
Essay 1097:
	Competition has increased to a greater extent between various organisations. This has forced most of the firms to only concentrate on profits rather than innovations. However, lack of explorations has impacted the growth of the country's economy. In this essay, we will analyse how ruling party can motivate co-operations to invest in the analysis of old products and improve them.
	To begin with, the political authority can declare some benefits for those industries which have modified the existing systems for their better performance. For instance, elected group can provide some concessions on the mortgage interest rate for the firms releasing modified merchandises. Evidently, Company will put full efforts on experimenting old product and creating its better version. Thus, it is apparent that this will inspire associations to venture in redeveloping existing applications.
	In addition to this, the administration can provide few dedicated staff members for the purpose of creating new better systems from the existing one. A good illustration for this is the group of employees who will be employed on government's payroll but will work for the other companies. In other words, the only aim of these special employees will be improving systems by performing some tests on them. Hence, Company will be able to focus on upgrading applications without compensating their regular profits.
	In conclusion, the government can play a vital role in influencing organisations to uplift older systems. What this means is government can provoke industries by offering them lower loan interest rates and committed workforce which will help to boost countries economy. It is thus hoped that ruling parties will implement some measures for instigating company to get involved in new inventions.
Essay 1098:
	Numerous organisations are mainly focusing on their core competence which is doing trade and generating profit for their shareholders. I personally believe that it has become essential for the government to play an active role in motivating companies to contribute in innovating.
	The main reason companies do not prefer investing money and people in doing innovation because it is an added cost without any guarantee of returns in near future. Besides that in order to be competitive organisations needs to be cost effective and offer products at a highly competitive rate. Additionally, in order to innovate industries need to first invest in training manpower, inducting right talents from the market which is as well driven by cost and invest in technology. By adding these recurring expenditure companies get demoralised and avoid innovating.
	In my view, organisations face obstacles which prevent them from venturing in this area. Thus government should offer tax rebates for companies who invest in innovation. And reward companies for developing solutions for the well-being of mankind. Organisations would be prompted to set up research labs and they will start competing amongst each other in innovations or patents as well. Furthermore, the government should ease regulatory and legal policy for setting up innovation labs. By doing this, companies will get confidence in the system and enable them to conduct experiments and test in research activities.  Such boosts to industries definitely encourage and motivate them, look beyond their trade targets and compete in innovation. Certainly, industries will be benefiting in long run by innovating cost-effective products and producing them for the well-being of mankind.
	In conclusion, I believe that government can play a major role in pushing industries to make rational decisions in investing in innovation.  Because of innovation, organisations can benefit their overall businesses.
Essay 1099:
	For example, some government organisations can be established to create an environment of trust and security among people and companies to monitor and regulate the process of research such as Federal development authority, Ministry of health sciences etc.
	Moreover, funding resources should be provided to companies, researchers and even students of universities who are working on valuable research areas for the noble cause of humanity.  A committee can be made to review the projects submitted and pass them on to the selection procedure. The selected candidates should be awarded funds or scholarships for their projects to complete within the fixed period of time. I quote you here my own example, being working as research scientist in a cancer hospital. One of my projects is still in the papers due to the limited supply of funds.
	To sum up my talk, I would like to say that governments, especially of undeveloped countries have to take some measures to support and promote the culture of research in private sector companies and community. Otherwise, we will lose the cream of our young minds and their life-changing abilities by spoiling their ideas and frustrating their minds.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1342-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-352-some-people-say-domestic-animals-should-not-be-reared-in-cities",
Essay 1100:
	Domestic animals have been people's companions for thousands of years. Nowadays many people have dog, cats, fish and even more exotic pets at their homes in the city. There are a lot of advantages of having a pet; however, there are also some disadvantages. My opinion is that having a domestic animal is something which can highly benefit you and your family's overall health and happiness even if you are living in the city. That’s why the city people should also be able to have pets in their homes.
	There are many people who consider pets as threats to people's health. Of course, they can be right but that depends on how they are treating the animals and how much care they are putting to foster them. If you do not treat your pet correctly or do not look after it with enough care, it can become a threat to you and the people around you. It is common for dogs to become aggressive if they're being abused or taught to be violent in some way. Also, if you don't take your pet to the vet regularly or you don't clean them well enough they can spread diseases some of which could be really dangerous to people.
	Despite these disadvantages having a domestic animal could make your life considerably better. It has been scientifically proven that having a pet makes you happier, more positive and optimistic. For example, buying your children a pet can make them realise what it's like to look after someone and therefore learn how to be more responsible. Pets are also highly suggested for elderly people of the city area because they could help them not feeling lonely and depressed and benefit their overall mental health.
	In general, I think that having a pet is an amazing experience and there should not be any restriction whether city people can have them or not. They can cure people’s loneliness; make them happier and more responsible. No matter if you're a young person or an older living in an urban area or in a metropolitan city, having a pet is something I would always recommend.
	From the very beginning of the human era, people can’t live without a companion. And sometimes it is seen that pets can be the best companions for many people. People often betray with others, but pets are always loyal to the master. Though rearing some domestic animals have some negative impact in cities, but in my view, such companion animals are beneficial to the community. I am giving some reason on my side.
	First of all, they often help people to lessen their loneliness and become a good companion. Sometimes it is seen that people feel bored when they are alone. In that time pets can play a vital role. Especially in developed countries, people are always busy with their own life, they have no time to accompany family and friends. In this situation, pets can be the alternative of friends. For example, a few days ago, I have visited Germany where I have met a man who was alone. He had no friend, but he had five pet cats. He spent his leisure period with the cats and he never felt bored.
	Secondly, domestic animals are so loyal to the master. They can do anything for the master even sacrifice their life. Last month, I have watched an animation movie where a pet dog sacrificed his life for the master. And this event is not rare in real life as well. We have read many times how a loyal pet has saved its master’s life.
	Thirdly, some domestic animals have direct economic impact on society. For example, some people rear some domestic animals and earn money by selling the animals. Besides, sometimes it is seen that domestic animals are the carrier of different diseases. Some animals often carry different types of poisons. But proper vaccination and care, this adverse situation can be overcome.
	In the conclusion, it can be said that domestic animals have direct and indirect beneficial impact on the society both in rural and city community.
Essay 1101:
	We are living in a capitalist world where we sell a third of our days in order to live during the rest. It is suggested by psychology coteries that we are lonelier than ever and as a result of this, depression is now at unprecedented levels. As social creatures we need companions, however, it is now unarguably hard to find time to spend for our relationships - and even worse for ourselves. In my opinion, this is the main reason for people to have pets since they don't judge you for not allotting time for them; all you need to do is to feed and fondle them. However, some people believe that confining pets within walls is wrong and they should not be kept in houses. My personal view is that they are extremely beneficial especially to who live alone.
	First of all, as I stated previously, we are spending our times mostly at our jobs and we don't even have enough time for ourselves let alone our friends. Many people have hard times to maintain their relationships and friendships. As a corollary of this, we are now more alone. It is a known fact that lonely people are more prone to depression and suicidal thoughts. I feel that having a pet which can sit on your legs and let you fondle itself can disperse all negative feelings.
	Secondly, taking a responsibility of someone or something matures people. You simply have something to care for and live for. In addition, pets can also replace the babies for those who cannot have one. Therefore, they can also satiate the need of bringing up an offspring and being parents.
	In conclusion, I feel that pets are a good companion for those who live alone especially for those who harbour depression and thought of suicide. Their love and taking their responsibilities can make people grown-ups and cure their psychologies damaged by their lonely lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1341-is-it-better-to-rear-children-in-joint-family-or-in-nuclear-family",
Essay 1102:
	With the proliferation of technology and adaptation of western culture, the interaction between family members is declining. As compared to the extended families in the past, in the modern era, nuclear families are prevailing. But according to my opinion, large families play a great role to shape a children's future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1340-nowadays-skills-like-these-are-disappearing",
Essay 1103:
	In the past, people tend to make hand-made clothes or repair items at home so that they can earn a living. Many people believe that this trend is dropping tremendously today. I agree that people no longer use these skills to earn a living and in fact, this phenomenon is also happening in my country. In the following paragraph, I will explain my views and the reasons why the skills are vanishing around the world.
	Many people remain convinced that the vast technological development has brought the disappearance of these skills. Take the case of computers, for example. It is true that the development of a trend of sending emails through computers take place in recent decades and these developments have replaced the traditional practice of writing letters with pens or pencils. Similarly, after the inventions of a cloth making the machine or repairing the machine, the majority of people have become more relied on these machines rather than the manpower. Since these inventions make the whole manufacturing or repairing process become more time and cost effective, it is easy to see why more and more businessmen choose to build factories with machines while hiring fewer and fewer people who have the skill of making clothes or repairing items.
	At the same time, I think that similar situations are happening in my country. Considering the fact that more and more people are switching the jobs from a manufacturing or repairing worker to a machine technician in the past few years, this cannot be denied. Given that the trend of industrialisation is still growing in my country, people eventually forget all these skills secondary to disuse. In the employees' mind, new factories with machines have higher profits and if they quit the job as a worker, they will be more likely to get a better-paid job and thus increase their living standards in future. Therefore, there is no doubt that the technical advances in my home country result in the disappearance of these skills as fewer people are willing to continue working for their original job.
	In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the technical development has brought the disappearance of these skills as the whole process has become efficient whereas in many employees' perspective, the incentive of not adopting these skills by switching their job nature allows them to become more wealthy and successful in future and this phenomenon is also commonly seen around the world including my country.
Essay 1104:
	Many years ago people used to make everything themselves and from scratch. Everyone's main duties included building a home, working in the field, cooking and making clothes. Most of the jobs we know today did not exist. There were no lawyers, bankers, journalists and many more. Nowadays, however, it's different.
	With the introduction of technology in our daily lives and in the production of many goods, the world has changed. People no longer learn how to make their own clothes or repair their houses. In modern days you either hire someone to do the job for you or use technology. As for clothes and food, you can just pop to the nearest shopping centre and find everything you need.
	In my country, things are more or less the same. It's not common for people, especially younger ones to have skills like these. Some years ago kids were taught how to sew and use machinery at school but this does not happen anymore. Of course, there are people who still know how to make things by themselves but they are usually doing it because they have no other choice - they either live in the countryside or are not particularly wealthy.
	In general, I believe that less and fewer people rely on themselves to do such work. It is a good thing that nowadays everything is so easy to get and technology is so advanced but thinks about it - if all of our machines broke, who would know how to do their job?
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1339-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-349-originality-does-not-mean-thinking-something-that-was-never-thought-before",
Essay 1105:
	Last two decades surprisingly changed our lifestyles with technological improvements and advent of new devices such as smartphones, smart watches and 3D supporting smart televisions. But, unfortunately, succession rate is minimum if we count abortive inventions too. This essay is going to examine what genuine idea is and how should it needed to be created to become successive in today's standards.
	First of all, it is obvious that one of the most important flagships for mobile electronics device is "iPhone". This idea has sold millions around the world but the main thing behind its success is the ancestor of this phone which is "iPod". Although the first phone had so many problems, because of its capability of anything iPod can do and phone usage as a plus. This idea could not end up with success without previous trials of iPod project.
	Secondly, recently smart watches become prevalent and main idea why they become popular is because of its opulent look, ability to interact with other devices and clock ability. For example, smart watches could not be popular if we still need to use the regular watch for time management.
	Moreover, smart televisions with 3D support could not get much attention if it only supported 3D movies. Gladly, investors figured out that it is important to support what traditional televisions capable and as a result of this, many people become accustomed to these devices.
	On the other hand, many inventions vanished because of their lack of compatibility with our life, even though they were capable of great things. For example, one of the abortive ideas was to create new kind of smartphone which works as a personal computer. The idea was called as "Ubuntu" and they created products but due to the fact that many people already have a computer and happy with their smartphones, they didn't want to spend their savings on this device and as a result of this genuine device production halted.
	In conclusion, mixing previous ideas improves the probability of creating genuine products and its success rather than trying to create a completely new product.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1338-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-348-discuss-the-cause-and-effects-of-widespread-drug-abuse-by-young-people",
Essay 1106:
	Nowadays, youth drug abuse has increased at an alarming rate in many societies which is leading to unhealthy lifestyle and setting bad trends in society. Unaware of their effects, adolescents are experimenting with both allowed and prohibited drugs in early childhood age. Sociologists believe that parents and other members of society are responsible for its increase usage. This essay will analyse the cause and effect of taking drugs and will make some recommendations to eradicate this abuse.
	The very first reason in drug adoption in youth is primarily due to parents, guardians and social circle. Parents may consume drugs to remain active at work or to relieve their bodies from mental stresses of everyday life. For instance, a divorced mother consuming drugs to comfort herself from the horror of past will set a bad example for her children to follow. This act will lead to an unhealthy lifestyle where children will opt to do the same.
	Another compelling reason which has significantly increased the drug usage is media and pressures to perform well in studies. Youth is challenged to deliver the most in academic institutes and this pressure forces them to consume both legal and illegal drugs. Media also plays a vital role, for instance, body building and other fitness advertisements portraits how mega mass and other medicines can help grow their muscles in a matter of time or lose weight in days. Though these look appealing and their continued usage without consulting a physician will have adverse effects on the body and will harm it in the longer run.
	To conclude, I recommend that the only possible way to eradicate this acute problem is through organising drug awareness and counselling programs. Government and civil society should put in their efforts to educate young people about the harmful effects of drugs addiction and should provide counselling services where required. By the passage of time, these practices will ensure that adolescents of our society will live a healthy life free from drugs and other harmful medication.
Essay 1107:
	It is a fact that most people in this modern era consume drugs either because doctors prescribe them or they take the medicines themselves. But it is noticed that the young people are consuming both legal and illegal drugs from an early age and this is indeed a concerning issue in today's society. Some experts believe that it is the fault of the parents and others members of communities that show an inappropriate example. Easy access to drugs is another problem that accelerates the depth of this concerning issue. The following essay will discuss the causes, effects and solutions that can be considered to resolve the issue.  
	For a number of reasons, many young generations are using legal and illegal drugs nowadays. Firstly, many teenagers are taking drugs due to the fact that they want to be relieved from the family problems. One of the examples is that their parents' marriage might not be working out well and could be in a divorce stage. These teens are stressed out with a bad family condition and the way to release it for them is to consume drugs. Secondly, many young people are using drugs because they live in an unsafe neighbourhood. They live in a society where as most of the adults are consuming drugs and drug dealers are moving around in the area. They could be friends with drug users and dealers, and in the end, they will also consume the drugs. Curiosity and lack of proper guideline are the two other reasons many young declines towards drug use. Most interestingly in many modern societies abusing drugs has become a fashion trend and many young simply follow this trend and as a consequence get trapped. Easy access to drugs in many countries and lack of monitoring by the authority lead to drug abuse by many young.   
	Many young people are abusing drugs and this results in serious problems. One of the effects is that these drugs are affecting their brain and mental conditions. Without consuming the drugs, they cannot think clearly and they would act like a paranoid without proper care. Another serious effect is that some of these young people might not have enough money to purchase the drug, but as they are addicted to it, they would do anything to get it. They might steal things, become a thief or even rob a store. The overall impact of this in a society is quite dangerous and the young who are meant to lead the society in the future are simply destroying their potential.  
	There are several things that people and government could do to resolve the issue. The government could make a campaign about how to raise young people and how to maintain the marriage. These campaigns must be socialised to all family members and show the impact of a bad marriage to young people. And then the government should also give more attention to high crime areas. Drug dealers must be arrested and drug users must be punished and sentenced to jail. By implementing these solutions, it is hoped that it will reduce the number of young people who consume drugs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1337-children-should-be-allowed-to-stay-at-home-and-play-until-they-are-six-or-seven",
Essay 1108:
	Children are born proactive in the present generation, hence every parent is quite enthusiastic to make their child grow faster. It is the responsibility of the parents to send their children to school at the right age. It can be believed that sending children to school is more comfortable rather than keeping them at home. In my opinion, a child definitely gains something more if he is sent to school at a very young age.
	Globally speaking, nowadays we have extraordinary school teachings like e-techno. If we consider this as an instance children gain much knowledge visually than the technical way of implementation. Even a child with an average IQ can also understand what is happening around him. Moreover, education is a part of life which does not have an end. So, every parent thinks to send their children at a particular age.
	Some people think that children should stay with the parent until they are at least six or seven years old because children feel forcible and uncomfortable at a very young age without them. But, the education system is changing more rapidly, the way of thinking and behaviour of the parents has to change according to the system. Furthermore, completion of studies may make the student get into corporate companies and mould to the outside world at a very young age.
	To summarise, I personally believe that children should be sent to school at a young age since, in today’s world, competition plays an important role. Everything goes on ‘First Come First Serve’ basis it also depends on the mental and physical ability of the children to send to school. Since not everyone is a child prodigy their capabilities are to be considered.
Essay 1109:
	When it comes to school age, there are some people who believe that it is better manner for the young children to stay home until their six or seven. On the contrary, in others opinion, the more school age would be earlier, the more benefits children would achieve. In today`s lifestyle, it seems that the second group follow the appropriate strategy because of some considerable merits as bellow.
	According to the fast-changing world where we are living in, shaping accurate communications for children plays a vital role in their future life. Starting to go to school in earlier age could contribute to benefit from the high potential of this period of life.
	Thanks to the fact that today, children`s abilities in many fields are gradually increasing, due to the widespread improvement in life conditions ranging from nutrition and health to education methods, they acquire suitable abilities from earlier ages, in comparison with the past. Therefore, the parents being aware of this could lead their children to faster progresses.
	As one other advantage of decreasing school age, it could be mentioned that the average age of the academic social would decrease. As a result, the young would achieve more opportunities to make beneficial experiences for their career life.
	In conclusion, it seems that nowadays, the school age has decreased and this change generally has resulted in improvement in the young`s relations abilities, their faster progress in knowledge and making more successful future in the field of work.
Essay 1110:
	There has always been a considerable debate over the topic whether children should enlist to the school as young as possible or they should spend their time at home playing games until they become seven years old.
	The main reason why many people favour the opinion that children should spend their time at home until they are seven is that they think younger ages are really important for the brain development and they are afraid of the misguidance possibility of their children. But, unfortunately, this action increases the tendency of becoming an introvert human being later in life. For instance, the childhood spent without friends could create more computer-based lifestyle when the person gets old.
	On the other hand, a generation that spends their childhood in school most likely will gather more information about their peers. Also, children will have a lot of chance to learn about interaction with other children and this will help them to have priceless memories with their friends. Furthermore, they will get a chance to have been taught limitless education materials or experiences by their teachers who are already aware of how to teach even the most problematic children. In addition, they will learn about cultural and historical information by visiting museums and festivals. Moreover, they don't have to spend their life in front of a computer when they get older because of their already improved communication skills.
	To summarise all my points that I explained so far, I believe that the benefits of sending children to school as soon as possible undoubtedly overweight the disadvantages which are nearly disregardable.
Essay 1111:
	There has always been a considerable debate over the topic whether children should go to school after four or they should stay at home until they are seven. While there are some merits in both arguments, my personal view is that parents should not hassle about sending their kids to school.
	People who support the school at young age base their arguments on the improvement rate of the brain during language acquisition. Research shows that the speed of connections made between neurones is faster during the first five years. This fact can also be interpreted as children are quick learner between age 0 to 5. Therefore, relatively hard lessons such as maths and physics can easily be acquired by kids when their learning capabilities at zenith. The second argument would be that kids tend to be more social when they are mingled with their peers at a younger age. More they stay beside their families, more they are accustomed to take rather than to give. However, we learn to be collaborative at school. Thus, sooner kids are sent to school, less the selfishness become entrenched.
	People who are opposed to this view, including me, feel that we live most of our lives as adults with a plethora of responsibilities and the childhood is already a short span to enjoy sufficiently. Why shorten it even more? The age seven is young enough to be inundated with lessons and to be given responsibilities in the form of homework.
	In conclusion, although I believe that both sides have strong arguments, my personal view is that children should not be sent to school until seven because childhood is already a short period of life and should be spent without responsibilities and abundant fun.
Essay 1112:
	On the one hand, it is a fact that many parents are enrolling their children in school at an early age these days. These children have been registered at toddler or nursery classes at the age of two or three years. These people think that educating their children at an early age is a good thing since the children would be much smarter and brighter than those who go to school at the standard age. However, there have been some negative cases reported regarding this act. Some of them have become stressed and depressed and impacted on their normal behaviour.
	On the other hand, there are parents who believe that children should start school at the normal age, which is around six or seven years old. These people believe that the standard age defined by the Ministry of Education has been set based on some scientific and psychological research. Therefore, it would be best for parents to follow the standard. Besides that, children could also learn things at home before they reach the school age period. Parents could purchase some educative toys for their children such as Lego which would help them in learning words, shape and colours.
	In conclusion, people have argued about the best age for children to enter school. Some of the people prefer to register their children at the age of two or three while others just enrol their children at the normal age, which is between the age of six or seven years old. Both views have their own advantages point but I personally believe that registering the children at the normal age is the best way.
Essay 1113:
	People have different opinions with regard to the question of ‘what is the right age for the children to start school?’ Although I accept that the younger generations should be permitted to stay at home and play till they reach a certain age, I also agree that it is much needed for them to start formal education soon. I would say that six or seven years would be a bit late to start school while 4-5 years would be the ideal time to do so.
	On the one hand, allowing children to be at home and play till they attain an age of six or seven has several benefits. Firstly, stress and strain needed to learn academic subjects would be avoided. Childhood days are meant to be enjoyed and there is no harm in letting them enjoy their freedom of life. Secondly, parental care is required until a certain age. For example, personal hygienic habit would be followed perfectly by a child if it is learnt from their parents. Finally, it is obvious that a child gets little mature comparatively, so it would be much easier for teachers to handle the students at an educational institution. Therefore efficient teaching and grasping would be the start of education for every child.
	On the other hand, an early education is the need of the hour to face the competitive world. Since the parents want their kids to be successful; they aim to give an excellent educational background to them. Instead of learning the basics at the age of six or seven, they want their children to be updated. That is the reason why so many play schools have been established these days. There are even several extra classes being conducted for cognitive development like mid-brain activation classes which mainly focuses on the age group below six. On the whole, making the younger minds to learn at this age, their mothers and fathers ensure that their child's time is well spent for the personal development which would help them to face the future life confidently.
	Finally, while I agree that freedom should be given to every child to cherish the childhood days, I believe that is more crucial to get them educated soon to secure their future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1336-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-346-every-country-should-have-a-free-health-service",
Essay 1114:
	Access to reliable and state of the art medical facilities is important for the people of any country. Advancement in medical treatment and medical technology has dramatically increased its cost over the last few years and has made it unaffordable for many people in the society. However, it is a primary duty of the state to take care of their people and provide them free health services.
	Firstly, it would be extremely difficult for unemployed and aged people to afford medical treatments in absence of free health services. As they do not have any source of income, thus it makes them more susceptible to death in the case of illness. In addition to this, the government is responsible for the wellness of its citizens and therefore should take necessary actions to improve people health by providing them lofty treatment without charging any single penny.
	Secondly, the health care services should be prioritising. People may have access to consultation and other general services without any restrictions. It is their legitimate right given by the government, to avail quality medical treatment free of cost. However, some disease such as cancer and heart attack are more vulnerable and demand more attention and care, thus making its treatment more expensive. Hence, free access to more specialises and expensive treatment may need some restrictions and should need some legislation to select limited patients because of excessive cost involved.
	To sum up, I would like to say that health is primary constituent of people lives. Therefore it should be funded and supported by government to provide good health services to their citizen without charging them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1335-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-345-the-exploration-and-development-of-safe-alternatives-of-fossil-fuels",
Essay 1115:
	Technological improvements affect our lives in tremendous ways. Each designed car model increase safety standard and reduce fuel requirement per mile. But, unfortunately, each created device affects nature atrociously because of fossil fuel usage. This essay is about possible opportunities of alternative energy and why it needs to be taken care of.
	First of all, the main reason why the alternative energy is needed to be prioritised is global warming. It has become a serious concern in the world and the underlying reason for this happening is carbon dioxide emission. Reduction of this perilous emission of carbon dioxide could put us one step ahead and the easiest way to reach this goal is the use of alternative energy in our daily life for different reasons such as driving cars, flying planes and to run heaters.
	Secondly, fossil fuel plants collect limited source which will be depleted eventually. Due to this fact, it is the most expensive energy source for today and will be in the future until its extinction. Also, anyone who wants to collect fuel should build expensive plants and as a result of this sector is controlled by big companies that are known as main subsidises and profiteers of wars. Furthermore, economic effects of fuel make world peace nearly impossible. Many wars erupt because of this material most people concern that "World War III" will strike because of it.
	On the other hand, safe alternative energy receives its power from nature. Such as, hydropower plants, solar power farms and wind power tribunes. Because of these, possibilities of this limitless power are way too higher than fossil fuel. Also, anyone who wants to collect one of these powers only needs to build the corresponding facility on his area and if produced power is higher than his requirement he could even sell it to the government regarding the newly approved bill.
	In conclusion, usage of this limitless power will definitely take a great part of our future and because of its possibilities, governments should pay more attention.
Essay 1116:
	It is undeniable that the human kind is proliferating uncontrollably, by depleting natural resources and damaging our sole home, like bacteria do in the petri dish. Fossil fuels are, without any doubt, one of our biggest problems since they are the main reason for the air pollution and the hole in ozone layer. It has been suggested that safe alternatives should be explored and developed and  totally agree with this view.
	With the advances in technology and globalisation, the need for mobility and fossil fuels in increased. Cars, buses, planes, ships; every link that connects us with the rest of the world consumes fossil fuels. As a result of this, air pollution has reached to unprecedented levels and lung cancer cases have risen so much that one day they will surpass flu cases. And even worse, we are polluting the world's air and water resources and soon it is predicted the wars will be made for water. We have even made a hole in the ozone layer and we are now less defenceless to ultraviolet rays of the sun and possible asteroid crashes. We are bringing our ends with our own hands.
	These problems, however, can be overcome by opting alternative sources. We can attain the same amount of energy by using natural sources solely. We can use solar panels, for instance, for brought heating and vehicles that work with electricity. There is no waste, no pollutant; there is only pure energy. Another alternative would be that to recycle our wastes to produce energy. For example, Switzerland is one successful pioneer that produces nearly forty percent of its energy need from home wastes by processing them in sophisticated recycling centres. In another category, some experiments have shown that waste olive oils can be used in cars efficiently. With further exploration, new safe alternative energy models can be developed for every aspect of life.
	My personal view is that governments should subsidise for alternative energy sources before it is too late for the world, rather that finding new homes in the space.
Essay 1117:
	From the last few decades, people have been using fossil fuels such as charcoal, petrol, gas, and diesel as their main source of energy. With increasing global warming due to the greenhouse effect of these fossils fuels, people are getting more noticed about unsafe use of them. Some of them believe that a safe alternative source of energy should be searched urgently to save our planet.
	People use fossil fuel for various purposes such as using gas for cooking and in air conditioning, driving engines with petroleum and diesel in vehicles and factories. So, we have enjoyed uncountable profits by the use of fossil fuels. But it not only gives us benefits but also brings many adverse effects. The most terrible negative impact is its contribution to global warming. Carbon dioxide emission from burning of the fossil fuels makes air pollution and also damage of ozone layer of our atmosphere which usually protects us from dangerous UV rays from the sun. Without the ozone layer, more UV rays will fall on our planet making the world very hot and increasing the risk of skin cancer among the people.
	To prevent further damage of ozone layer, scientists and researchers are looking into other alternative sources of energy which are clean and safe .For example, Italy is famous for a widespread use of wind energy since several years ago. Japanese are using nuclear power which is very cheap and clean. But the amount of global use of clean energy is very much less compared to the use of fossil fuels. So, governments are mainly responsible for exploring more sources of clean energy and enforcing the people to use it by imposing regulations as well as by increasing the people awareness of negative impacts of fossil fuels.
	To conclude, as the global warming effects of fossil fuels is a highly challenging problem of our planet, increasing use of alternative clean and safe energy is urgently demanding to save our beautiful planet in healthy condition.
Essay 1118:
	Many people believe that the research for green and safe energy as a replacement for oil should be the main global priority these days. To a certain point, I would agree with that, but some considerations should be cautiously measured as well.  
	It is true that as for the sake of the environment, people should seek for a safer and cleaner source of energy. It is undeniable that the world has become overdependence on fossil fuels such as coal and oil as their source of energy. Consequently, air pollution has become a serious issue in certain cities such as Beijing and Mexico City. Therefore, some countries have been spending a large amount of money for the development of the renewable energy. Some of the examples would be the solar panel system, windmill, nuclear plant and hydro. In fact, the time has come for the world to work together in harmony to introduce an effective solution towards the invention and use of an alternative fossil fuel.  
	Despite all the positive sides of alternative energy, people should also be aware of several things. Firstly, many people do not realise that some of these energy generators are also dangerous for the environment. For example, many scientists believe that nuclear power plants are friendly to the environment, but these plants must be carefully maintained. A small leakage in the generator could become a fatal issue for the society, as in such cases it became a national disaster. Secondly, the expenditure for research and development of green energy worldwide is higher than the exploration cost of fossil fuels. Consequently, the government must also provide an extra budget for that around the world. It is also difficult for all nations to work together towards the introduction of an alternative energy source. For instance, the USA might adopt a policy not to use the fossil fuel and invest in a more environment-friendly energy source, however, adopting this same policy for countries like India and Pakistan would be quite impossible.                                      
	In conclusion, to a certain point, I would agree that we should seek for safer and greener sources of energy as an alternative to fossil fuels globally. But I also believe that numerous research should also be conducted with proper feasibility studies and cautious measurements as it could also have catastrophic effects on the environment as well. And then the government in each country should also provide a higher budget for research as they are more expensive than the fossil fuel exploration.
Essay 1119:
	The research, investigation and usage of an alternative of crude oil and its by-products is considered to be given the most important world attention nowadays. In my opinion, I agree that exploration and research on alternatives to fossil fuels should be a targeted goal for the world because it will solve many problems and reduce quite a good number of environmental issues.
	It is obvious that efforts made by the human being to explore and advance their surrounding have also caused major problems such as water, air and environmental pollution. An excessive amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere has dramatically affected the ozone layer, which is supposed to protect human habitat. The fossil fuel is damaging the environment in an unbelievable pace and many world leaders have already agreed that the use of fossil fuels should be controlled to save the environment. Now the question arises how much importance it should get? As it is related to the very existence of the mother planet – Earth, and a global problem, without any doubt it should be given a global priority. If not, after few decades it would be too late to control the catastrophic consequences.
	To urgently tackle this problem, world leaders from different countries should sit together and agree to policies that all countries in the world would follow. This meeting should be done as soon as possible. It is also important that some major safe alternatives like solar power, biogas, green energy etc. should be widely used and the government should encourage people to use it. In addition, the climate issue involves all nations of the world and the fatal effects will affect the every single of them. That is why it is imperative that global attention and sponsorship are given by the governments of different countries and international bodies to conduct the research, to invent a safe alternative to the fossil fuel immediately.
	In conclusion, it is very important that governments of numerous countries set aside a robust financial plan and policy paralleled to the exploration of green energy in order to combat anticipated problem that may arise.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1334-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-344-what-are-some-of-the-reasons-for-poverty",
Essay 1120:
	There has been a dramatic increase in poverty in some developing and underdeveloped countries over the last few years. This has affected large numbers of people and hiked up their woes. Illiteracy, unemployment, inflation and unstable economic conditions are few factors that have contributed immensely to poverty. However, people’s suffering could be mitigated by providing them health, education and job opportunities.
	It is often seen that people are reluctant to send their children to educational institutions in poor countries. These institutions could help them in educating and changing their destiny. Despite its benefits, people would like to indulge their children in some paid work, which could not help significantly in altering their present conditions. Furthermore, due to uncertain circumstances of the country, there is a price hike of various basics items that are mandatory for daily life. Exorbitant prices of others goods and transportation also badly affected people financial matters.
	The government can play a pivotal role to eradicate poverty from society.  There should be attempts by the government to provide vocational training to poor people. That will enable them to find a good job based on their skills. Moreover, there should be free education for poor peoples; these people should be awarded a scholarship for higher studies based on their lofty performances.
	To sum up, I would like to say that government should take preemptive measures to reduce poverty by giving them professional training and educational facilities. The state could also support financially to poor families if there is no one to provide basic amenities of life to them. It is also government duty to ensure that hapless people should not be deprived off from basic life necessities.
Essay 1121:
	It is undeniable that every nation faces the poverty problem at some point in its history and they all have their own specific ways in addressing the issue. Poverty is a pressing issue in many parts of the world and effective steps are quite important to solve this problem. The following essay will discuss some of the reasons that lie beneath the issue and some of the solutions to resolve it.  
	For a number of reasons, poverty has become an issue in many countries in the world. Firstly, some countries have a large population of poor people due to the poor performance of the governments. For example, under the dictatorial presidentship, many people are facing starvation due to the fact they have a greedy leader who concentrates more on the personal gains than people's betterment. Secondly, certain countries are facing poverty problem due to the unfavourable geographical areas. For instance, certain countries in Africa are facing starvation problem due to the drought issue. Thirdly, some nations have poverty-stricken people in their area because many of these people are lazy and not interesting in working. Some people in developed countries are given allowance from the governments, and they misuse the fund.  Instead of using the money to buy basic needs and searching for jobs, many of them just buy drugs and get drunk. This causes destitution for many people and they cannot come above the poverty line. Lack of natural resources, poor education and lack of trade facility are three major reasons many Asian countries are still poor.  
	There are several things that United Nations and governments could do to resolve the poverty  problem globally.  One of them is that United Nations should give more attention to countries where political instability is the main reason people starve every day. The UN must make intense diplomatic negotiation to reunite people and make them into a free democratic country. As for countries that have unfavourable landscape, the UN could cooperate with local governments in building dams and other facilities. With the existence of UN provided facilities, it is hoped that many countries could manage their irrigation, natural resources and manpower  to improve their condition. Lastly, for people who are idle and become alcoholic, the allowance for them should be stopped. Instead of giving them the money, it could be allocated for treating their addiction and for creating job opportunities for them.  
	In conclusion, many countries have poverty issue, as they have corrupted government, no natural resources, or adverse geographical condition. There are several things that the UN and governments could do to resolve the issue, but the most important one is to change the political condition and help them utilise their own resources.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1333-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-343-popular-hobbies-and-interests-change-over-time",
Essay 1122:
	It is true that people's hobbies and interests change in accordance with the latest trends and fashions. They are following these hobbies and interest for the sake of popularity, not for personal pleasure. To a certain extent, I would agree with the statements, but there are some new hobbies which people follow due they like the activity.
	On the one hand, many people change their hobbies for popularity purpose. People follow and do popular activities to show that they exist and up to date with the latest trends. But In the reality, they do not have the passion in doing it. For example, mountain biking has become a popular activity in Indonesia lately, and many people are following it. While some of them do mountain biking due to they like the sport, others are doing it to show that they are following the current trend and to show that they have the latest model of the bicycle.
	On the other hand, there are few other people who change their interests and hobbies due to the fact that they like these new activities. These new hobbies might be the latest trend, but these people change their interest because they have such huge passion in these activities. Besides that, these hobbies might be newly invented, therefore no one was doing these hobbies in the past.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that people's hobbies and interest sometimes changes. To a certain point, I agree that some people change their hobbies due to following the trend, but there are others who change their interest due to they like the new activity. I personally believe that hobby is a personal matter, and we should not follow what is popular in public and should do things that we really like.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1332-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-342-learning-about-the-past-has-no-value-for-those-who-live-in-the-present",
Essay 1123:
	Some people believe that learning historical events bring no benefits for those who live in the current period. I strongly disagree with the opinion, as I believe that learning about the past has many benefits for every individual and the society as well, and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	To begin with, by studying history, people could learn about humanity and how to maintain world peace. From learning about world war one, world war two and other wars, people could learn that war was full of crime and violence. A lot of soldiers and innocent civilians became victims and there were some areas which have been permanently damaged due to wars such as Nagasaki and Hiroshima. By studying about these horrifying events, it is hoped that people all over the world will realise the cruelties of war and should maintain world peace.
	Studying about past events also has some positive effects on human's health as well. By learning about the lifestyle of our ancestors such as how they hunt, plant seeds and ate, the scientist could predict some genetic diseases that modern people are facing. Some diseases might be genetically carried from the blood of our ancestors due to their nomadic lifestyles, and people could some research on how to cure these diseases.
	In conclusion, it is true that several people think that studying the past has no beneficial outcome to the modern people. I personally do not agree with the statement as I believe that learning about the past events has many benefits for human beings, such as in the politic, medical or economic areas.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1331-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-341-some-workplaces-do-not-ensure-the-safety-of-workers-who-use-dangerous-equipment",
Essay 1124:
	It is seen in many places that a lot of accidents are caused due to lack of awareness. Mostly, in the case of workers working in an industry with hazardous equipment. ‘Too Many Cooks Spoil The Broth’, in the same way instead of appointing many workers blindly there may be a drastic change if a worker who knows to deal with the equipment is being granted.
	Firstly, the reason behind the cause of accidents is the lack of literacy rate. For instance, if we consider the Chernobyl nuclear power plant disaster in Ukraine in the 20th century, this affected severely around 25 countries, took many months to recover to genuine state. In addition to that, Steel industries which involved lots of equipment to make the iron mould to a particular shape, Workers try hard to complete work rather than to understand and complete in a smart way.
	Moreover, large companies which deal with heavy equipment require huge staff members. In my opinion, it is the responsibility of the management who should take care of each and every worker progress and maintain till date report. Some people think that up to date progress of workers is a quite time-consuming process. But, eligibility criteria comes with regular correspondence, everyone who is capable of understanding in more effectively can give a high productivity more obviously.
	After discussing the pros and cons I conclude that a worker before dealing with heavy equipment has to be well known to deal with it. Otherwise, a small mistake may cost so many lives. It is also the responsibility of oneself to take care, even though management provides several guidelines.
Essay 1125:
	Nowadays, work safety is very important and receives a lot of attention in many countries. However, there are still some places where dangerous equipment is used but the workers’ safety is not guaranteed. In order to enhance the safety of people involved, we need to establish a work safety procedure and put responsibilities on every person.
	Firstly, a safety protocol needs to be in place with a list of all necessary measures. This will include doing a risk assessment to carefully examine and predict all the foreseeable risks and consequences a person might encounter during equipment operation. Secondly, all the workers who are expected to work with dangerous facilities need to be educated intensively on the equipment handling and operating techniques.  Education helps workers to be more aware of what they are dealing with and take necessary precautions. Lastly, supervisors should be employed to take care of the workers during working hours and alert them if any suspicious thing happens.
	Everybody should be liable for ensuring safety at any workplace, including business owners, managers, supervisors and workers themselves. The owners are accountable for the whole business process, including the welfare of their staff. On the other hand, the workers are the ones who actually do the work and use these hazardous facilities. Hence, they know better than anyone else on the risks they have and be cautious of them. In addition, the government and authority should be also answerable to ensure the safety of all work places under their care.
	In conclusion, everyone who is involved in the work and the authority should take part in making workplaces safe for workers. In addition, business entities should have a safety protocol with a rigorous risk assessment, worker training programmes and supervision so that people can enjoy a better workplace.
Essay 1126:
	Most people would accept that the life of a human being is more valuable than million dollars. Unfortunately, avaricious companies don't hold the same opinion. Every day, hundreds of workers around the globe die because of unspent money to safety. In this essay, I shall examine who should be accounted for safety issues in a workplace and what measures can be taken to prevent accidents.
	We live in a capitalist world that is led by mercenary companies that do not care about anything other than low expenses and high profits. The only thing that might scare managerial cadre of a company would be high taxes, compensations and fines. This statement may sound harsh, but one should only look at the death rate of workers in countries that do not have deterrent sanctions for negligent employers to see the bitter truth. The mine explosion in Turkey with 300 deceased workers would be a good example to illustrate this argument.
	This brings us to the main actor who can bring the most disincentive measure into this problem- the government. There are a variety of potential ways of combating this problem. One preventive measure would be that to compel companies to employ at least one health and safety consultant who will directly report to the corresponding ministry about the company's internal safety applications. Another measure would be unannounced regular audits. Besides these two preventive measures, astronomical fines and to close companies that insist on compromising safety guidelines should be devised as a main, deterrent measure.
	My conclusion is that it is the regulations of governments that can save workers against employers. To tackle this problem, safety guidelines and disincentive penalties should be devised and carried on by governments.
Essay 1127:
	Accidents in some workplaces are assumed inevitable for employees with certain skills or professions such as cooks, construction workers, high voltage operation technicians and drivers. However, in order to avoid or minimise accidents, it is necessary to understand what has led to this happening first. In this essay, I first of all will examine what are necessary actions to be taken for avoiding accidents, and then I will suggest who should take necessary actions to get rid of unexpected.
	Surely the principal cause of accidents which happens to staffs who use dangerous material is due to lack of education. For instance, a worker who works for minimum wage most likely isn’t aware of safety instructions if not educated deeply with examples and in a result of this, the accident might be possible for even usage of basic equipment. In order to eliminate this chance, the government should take necessary actions to compel employers to hire environment, health and safety officers. These officers should be responsible for all workers education process. In addition, officers should also investigate workplace to make sure that it is safe for everyone.
	Although employers should be responsible for hiring officers to ensure education level of workers, the government should take necessary actions. For example, unannounced audits and investigations can be made to understand education level of workers might secure their life. Furthermore, investigated negligence should be ended up with a serious fine by the government to urge employers for checking internal process about the education of health and safety.
	To summarise all points that I explained so far, workers using dangerous equipment should educate themselves about dangers of their profession, also employers should control their staffs’ knowledge level regularly and the government should ensure systems status and punish who do not care as much as required.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1330-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-340-the-best-way-to-travel-is-in-a-group-led-by-a-tour-guide",
Essay 1128:
	Travelling is an excellent way to enhance our knowledge and experience. Travelling offers us first-hand experience of different places, cultures, customs, traditions, history and presents us the opportunity to explore the world as well as ourselves. However, people often express their view that travelling in a group which is led by a tour guide is the best way to get advantages of the travelling. I quite agree with this viewpoint and this essay expresses the reason for my opinion.
	First of all, travelling in a group which is led by an experienced chaperone offers us the best possible information and knowledge we can learn from travelling. The experienced guide will plan the schedule and will explain the importance of a place or its historic significance. From their experiences, tour guides can select the best possible routine and time schedule while visiting numerous places in an area. This not only ensures a safe travel and tour experience to travellers but also gives them best possible value for their money and time. Tour guides know what vehicles to use, what dangers to avoid, when to start a tour, where to stay, where to dine and so on. This is quite impossible while travelling alone. Travelling in a group is an excellent way to meet new people while travelling alone might make an explorer bored in few days. We are human and we need company no matter what we do. Travelling is no exception and having good companions while travelling is safe, less costly, more adventurous and enjoyable.
	Secondly, a tour guide is a professional who has a good communication skill and extensive knowledge of the local culture and history. While visiting a place the historic significance and other important facts about it often makes it worth visiting. For instance, a single tourist might not enjoy visiting a place, but the attractions of this place increase when the tour guide explains the significance of this place and people visit this place in a group. Thus group activity is another important reason we enjoy our travel and this is only possible for travellers who travel in a group guided by an experienced escort.
	Finally, group members often become good friends and they help each other when they travel together. Travelling alone for any individual, especially for a woman, is not always safe. Above all, we always need a professional to assist us planning and executing our plans. Travelling is no exception in this regard.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree that travelling in a group led by an experienced guide is far better than travelling alone due to the numerous benefits of travelling in a group offers. Personally, I would always prefer travelling with a group of people which will be led by professional tour planners and guides.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1329-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-339-the-highways-department-blames-the-high-road-toll-on-poor-vehicle-maintenance",
Essay 1129:
	Road traffic accidents and traffic issues are two major problems all around the globe. There are more debates about the poorly maintained vehicles and toll collecting centres along the highways. In fact, travel network, roads, and traffic system in many parts of the world are in poor condition and need repairing. However, in my opinion, frequent road inspection and regulation by law is needed to ensure safety condition of the road and vehicles.
	Obviously, thousands of people lose their life because of alleged road traffic accidents. It is important to maintain the good condition of roads. For instance, India is the country with 4 different climates and road network around the country is in a bad condition during Monsoon. Roads during this time become slippery and gutters make the travel dangerous for people. A large number of motor-vehicle travellers die each year due to the poor maintenance of roads and traffic. So it is important to safeguard the public and government and law enforcing authorities have important roles to play for this.
	Firstly, the government collects a huge amount of money every year as vehicle tax. This money should be utilised to modify and repair the old, poor conditioned roads. There is news about the corruption in public work departments and the unscientific ways of building the roads. So government should be strict to control such corruption and misconduct. Penalties should be imposed on engineers and companies who show any sign of corruption and negligence from their side. The company who handled the work and had produced faulty output should be banned from future work. Continuously, there are toll centres along the highways and they are collecting money for many years. the government should make sure this money is used for road safety. Finally, the public transportation system in many areas is old and need repair and renovation. Safety standards for all vehicles should be inspected periodically.
	In conclusion, road accidents are one of the leading causes of death in many countries and it is the government’s responsibility to save its citizens from such accident. By improving the standard of roads, imposing strict punishment for violation of traffic rule, monitoring development work, the government can play its role while the citizens should obey the traffic rule in every way possible to minimise this casualty.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1328-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-338-people-who-watch-a-lot-of-violent-television-programs",
Essay 1130:
	It is believed that when a person sees a lot of sadistic and brutal scenes on television, it will affect on his emotion as he becomes more aggressive when he is angry. I would agree with the statement, as many violent cases have been reported due to the effect of television shows.
	To begin with, it is undeniable that violent television shows have some negative effects on their viewers. As we see that most of the highest rating films on televisions are all about wars, criminal acts, murders and terrors, they become the prime shows for many television stations. As a result, we cannot avoid in watching these films and they gradually affect our mind. Many of these programs are showing that fighting or shooting a gun is a normal scene when people are angry, and as a consequence, the number of gun murderers has increased rapidly in some countries.
	Then, in some shows, they even make it into a sporting event, such as the Ultimate Fighting Champion or World Wide Wrestling. These dangerous scenes have affected young people, as they see that hitting another person or slamming the opponent with a chair is an exciting thing. Teenagers who watch these shows frequently would try to do the same thing to their friends and that results some injuries and accidents. In the children criminal record, it is found that many of them have become aggressive due to the effect of the films they have watched. Therefore it is important for parents to monitor the type of shows that their children are watching.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree that violent scenes on television programs could influence our emotional thinking. Therefore, we should avoid in watching these films frequently and we should also give some explanation to the young people as well.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1327-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-337-laws-should-not-be-rigid-or-fixed",
Essay 1131:
	The law is a system of rules and guidelines and it shapes political, social and economic relationships of people. Some people say that laws should be flexible because of different reasons and it should be amendable in different situations. However, this essay would discuss that laws should never be bounded by situations because flexibility would only make the system vulnerable and increase the crime rate.
	First and foremost, flexibility in rules and regulations make it weak. People personalised ordinance for their needs. The laws mould and use it makes difficult to judge and provide justice people who really deserve it. Moreover, flexibility in laws leads people to find loopholes. Thus, offenders can escape from punishment by finding excuses and moulding laws for their rights.
	Secondly, the crime rate has decreased due to fear of punishment. The bendable laws give more safety from the penalty of the crime. In addition, people think that crimes resolve their problems and flexible law safeguard them from the punishment. Therefore, more people do crimes because of lack of fear of punishment. Furthermore, flexible laws make confusion in people about what is wrong and right, people may part in crime due to unaware of flexible laws. Ironically, some people may part in crime unintentionally; flexible laws help people to get a solution from it. In some cases, people may do crimes but it was good for society, like this situation bendable law help them from punishment.
	To conclude, laws are essential for the better life of people. Flexibility in law deteriorates the overall performance of system and justice based on circumstances less productive. Notwithstanding, the update in law is needed as time changes.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1326-can-computerised-data-collection-on-individuals-be-justified",
Essay 1132:
	It is true that by the development of technology, preservation of citizens’ information has thoroughly changed. While organisations had to spend tremendous money to gather and save data, now accessing such volume of mass information has become far easier. I personally think that despite having some serious consequences of this method, the benefits surpass their drawbacks.
	To begin with, several disadvantages have caused people’s information to be at more risk. One important disadvantage is that their privacy can be more exposed to hackers. For instance, recently Ashly Maddison website, a popular dating web with over 33 million users, was hacked and loosed its users’ vital information in few seconds. Had not computer been introduced, such accidents could have been avoided. Another negative impact is that they might be misused. Instead of appropriate using of these data, some companies or governmental sectors use them to raise their benefits. In particular, CIA, the US intelligent system, uses the social network, including personal images or profiles, to operate against them.
	From my opinion, modernisation has assisted many officials to find people’s information far simpler than in the past. One important advantage is that they can save more money. Obviously, to access citizens’ past history, they had to hire a large number of employees which led them to consume huge budget. As a prime example, to register birth information, the related organisation had to keep people’s files on large spaces, and thousands of personnel were needed to be hired to be able to find persons’ files. However, now in few seconds, the necessary statistics can be found and few employees are needed to be employed and paid than before. Another positive impact is that more secure computerised systems can protect these kinds of important information. Using antivirus or firewalls has levelled security of data, whereas in the past, accessing the papers was far more straightforward.
	In conclusion, although digital preservation of individuals’ statics might have some negative consequences, its positive influences should not be forgotten. From my perspective, this technique has led we are able to save time and have a far more secure method for protection of citizens’ data.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1325-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-335-many-people-find-it-difficult-to-balance-their-responsibilities-at-home-and-in-the-work-place",
Essay 1133:
	One of the most conspicuous trends in the 21st century is the difficulty of keeping a life-work balance. Some people find it hard to manage their time to be successful and fully responsible at their workplace and at the same time spend quality time with their families. This is certainly a problem faced by many.
	There is no doubt that in the highly competitive business environment, it is extremely difficult not to be competitive at work. Many workers are trying to survive and be successful and this forces them to spend more than eight hours per day at work. For example, an accountant not only uses to manage his responsibilities and duties but also does additional work. To manage that it is possible to limit employee’s responsibilities or share them with others.
	The next point that needs to be taken into consideration is that people should manage their responsibilities at home like washing, cleaning, ironing and also, communicate with other family members. To be able to do so, they must manage to not be overtired from their responsibilities at work. In this case, they will be able to spend quality time with their families and maintain their responsibilities.
	The competition at a workplace, increased population and our demand to do best in every sector is the main reason we are not being able to balance in our professional and personal life. The decreased family bonding and less time for socialising are two main reasons for this heinous trend. To tackle this we need to spend more time with our family members and contribute to household works. More time should be reserved for the dear and near one than spending those times in electronic devices. The value of family bonding should be taught from the early childhood and the parents should make examples through their works to teach children the importance of family value.
	To sum up, there are a lot of people who cannot successfully manage their responsibilities and keep work-home balance. I highly recommend people to limit their responsibilities or share them among other people or organisations as well as plan a timetable of time spend at work and at home.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1324-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-334-a-number-of-different-medical-traditions-are-now-widely-known-and-used",
Essay 1134:
	Today, plenty of medical methods are used by professionals to cure humans. These methods have different impacts via different mechanisms to control the development of each disease. I believe that bonding between patient and doctor is extremely important because it can raise the level of confidence between them, and the patient will receive a more accurate therapy.
	Apparently, despite using modern medication introduced by developed countries, alternative medicine, hypnotism or other traditional methods have not been forgotten yet. In this way, in China, traditional medicine has been used by many professionals teaching medicine in university, and different methods are applied to cure debilitated humans, like putting needles on different parts of feet to relieve musculoskeletal pains.
	In addition, doctor-patient communication is a very important factor and positive reinforcement is a leading strategy that many health professionals usually use to enhance the level of reliability of each medical treatment. Clearly, having a better self-confidence, a medical doctor can show his or her abilities to cure diseases and become prosperous in finding the causes of their patients’ problems. In particular, an experienced psychologist can relief the symptoms of a depressed patient better when he is supported mentally by using some hypnotism techniques. His physician can explain the mechanism of this type of medical induction in detail and raise the trustworthy between them.
	Another factor why a patient should be familiar with the process of his treatment is that he will become more punctual in using of drugs. Definitely, to reach the maximum influence of each medication, including modern or alternative medicine, people must use prescribed drugs accurately. A perfect healthcare employee must value his or her patients’ opinions and give the detail of procedure as long as ethical issues of therapy are not being missed. For example, a one being diagnosed with a progressed cancer must be informed how much some alternative medicines might be important than chemotherapy, and their oncoming side effects must precisely be explained to the patient. As a result, this patient will be able to select these therapies instead of usage of chemical therapies.
	In conclusion, reliability is an essential factor for receiving a better healthcare service. From my point of view, knowing the details of treatment and having a mutual relationship between doctors and patients, are the two important reasons that increase the speed of improvement of illness.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1323-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-333-university-students-are-required-to-attend-the-classes",
Essay 1135:
	In some countries such as Russia and China, attendance in classes is compulsory at universities, whereas it is voluntary in many universities in Australia and New Zealand. I firmly believe that attending classes is important for students and should be a compulsory requirement. However, opinions could vary from case to case.
	There is no doubt that the class attendance and the level of knowledge of a specific subject highly correlate to each other because during the lecture students can hear and see the lecturers who explain the topic as well as answer questions regarding this topic. This level of interaction impacts students positively who can understand better the topic after class participation. Additionally, during the lecture or tutorial teachers can explain the material in an easier or simpler way than it could be read from the book.  As a result of class attendance, students will not only have greater knowledge and have a deeper understanding of the topic but also will be able to solve questions based on the topic, pass a course and use this knowledge for their future careers. Teachers who conduct classes not only talk about the subject matter, but also tell stories and share their experience which is helpful for students to understand or remember a topic. Teachers also inspire students, give helpful guidelines and refer related books so that students can learn even better. If someone does not attend classes, he will less likely make friends and will miss the valuable lessons taught by the teachers.  
	On the other hand, in some situations attending classes should not be mandatory. For example, students may be absent because of sickness, jobs, family needs or the necessity to take care of children or the urgent need to be in a different place during the class time. Some of the students are forced to work and sometimes the work hours come across the class hours. For the benefits of those students, attending classes at the university level should be voluntary. Many people believe that university education is quite different than pre-university level education. Students in university level are quite matured and they should be free to learn things they way they prefer- be it classrooms, library, the internet or some other sources.
	To sum up, different views exist in regards to class attendance by university students. However, in my opinion, it is more beneficial for students to attend classes which will eventually help them to increase their knowledge, read more, learn more and, definitely, it will help them to prepare for their future career.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1322-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-332-how-can-access-to-electronic-services-be-controlled",
Essay 1136:
	Use of electronic services has substantially increased with the advancement of technology over the last few years. Nowadays, a great number of children have become addicted to computers, tablets and the internet, and these technologies have become a mandatory constituent of their daily routine. This is an alarming situation for parents because the internet could lead to severe problems such as gambling and uncontrolled shopping by using credit cards. This could be minimised by adapting various precautionary measures such as monitoring children activities, discouraging use of electronic items and developing their aptitude towards creative activities.
	Firstly, parents can play a pivotal role in this regard, they should indulge their children in pragmatic activities, and for instance, debating is an activity which could leave an undeniable impression on children minds. Furthermore, sports have a significant impact on children physical and psychological health. It will provide them an opportunity to learn teamwork, handling pressure and others traits that are essential for their coming lives.
	Secondly, there should be attempts by the parents to create awareness about the dire consequence of bad usage of the technology. Proper guidance and support would definitely help children to identify the positive use of technology. In addition to this, parents should encourage their children towards educational activities and realise them about the numerous benefits of it in their future lives.
	To sum up, I would like to say that parents’ attentions and guidance can dramatically help children in availing the true benefits of technology. Moulding their attitude towards creative and dynamic work will surely mitigate the use of electronic items from their lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1321-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-331-who-is-to-be-blamed-for-the-accidents-deaths-caused-on-roads",
Essay 1137:
	Is it a fact that the death rate due to traffic accidents has increased significantly in the past recent years. Authorities believe that it was due to the bad driving of the drivers, while vehicle drivers think that it was because of the poor condition of the road.  I personally believe that we should not blame each other for the inconvenient condition, as each party should evaluate and try to improve themselves.
	On the one hand, street designers and government authorities believe that the incremental rate of traffic accidents that caused death is because of the driver’s negative behaviours. Many drivers are doing some in-disciplined act before or when they drive. For example, many drivers are drinking alcohol at an unacceptable volume before they drive, or some people are speeding their car over the standard limit. As a result, serious traffic accidents have risen drastically in the past recent years.
	On the other hand, car drivers believe that the high number of fatal traffic accidents was due to the terrible conditions of the road. They believe that many roads and streets are not well maintained, as there are holes on the street and many of the roads are bumpy and slippery. As a consequence, many motor vehicles drivers face serious accidents due to the condition.
	In my opinion, instead of blaming someone or something, each party should evaluate themselves and try to resolve the issue. Traffic designers and the government could try to reduce traffic accidents by giving a more intense campaign about safety driving to the public, and set a stricter regulation about driving a car. Authorities should also try to improve their performance on road maintenance as well. As for drivers, they should try to follow all the set regulations about safety driving as these policies are made with extra cautious and precise measurement.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1320-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-330-a-lot-of-films-are-now-being-made-strictly-for-the-dvd-market",
Essay 1138:
	The film industry has a significant influence on the lifestyle of youngsters from beginning of 19th century until now. In India, movies are acting as a media of one-way communication and this film industry has contributed one of the biggest parts of the economy of India. One part of society think that watching movie online instead of going to cinema theater is positive development of technology, but I believe that this is negative development because it affects not only on the income of filmmakers but also on the income of government and this development also introducing new trend of reducing public attraction towards the DVD market.
	Directors of film usually invest huge money for making his film extraordinary. Due to, piracy people usually watch movies by downloading them from the internet, because of this, filmmakers get less profit. Furthermore, it affects on taxes which they have to pay to the government. For instance, in India piracy is a big crime and India suffered a lot because of this crime in 2010. Since piracy has been banned, government's overall income has increased a lot. Moreover, Indians encouraged purchasing DVDs on a large scale.
	Nowadays it is noticeable that, many people do not have any interest in buying original DVD or watching movies in a theatre because of many reasons. First of all, there are many websites on which one can easily find new updated movie list. Secondly, because of busy a schedule, they get very less time as leisure time. Eventually, the price of the DVD and movie tickets is quite high. That is why audiences are more attracted towards the easy way of watching movies and that is the internet. For example, those who belong to a  rural area, generally enjoy movies by watching them online because they are not capable of paying a high cost of original DVDs.
	In conclusion, negative use of the internet, especially for piracy, has affected badly on the income of filmmakers as well as on the number of audiences in cinema theatres. Collaboration among audience, film-maker and government is very much important to avoid piracy.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1319-universities-should-provide-graduates-with-the-knowledge-and-skills-needed",
Essay 1139:
	The primary purpose of tertiary education is to prepare graduates for their future career. While thousands of people would enrol for the sake of acquiring general knowledge and skills which will make them competitive in the job market, there is a portion of them who would expect to obtain the specific qualifications only for their dream job. Therefore, I strongly believe that university should organise their courses’ programs in order to provide future employees with all the skill sharpening professional training for their specific occupation.
	One compelling reason for this is that all the contemporary occupations nowadays are task specific which makes it a necessity for workers to be able to comply with every job requirement. Once they graduate they are expected to take over all the responsibilities their job needs them to do, have the know-how, as well as the expertise to carry out all the arduous and demanding tasks. For instance, as soon as I graduated from the Faculty of Philology I had to take a part-time teaching job. I was overwhelmed with all the expectations my employer had in everyday practice, whereas there was no need at all of all the theory I had mastered throughout my studies.
	On the other hand, it is beyond doubt that most of the jobs would require employees to do a lot of multi-tasking and to be capable of meeting deadlines while conducting project work. Apparently, big companies would prefer to employ a person well-equipped with all the necessary knowledge related to several positions within their range, instead of over-staffing. Notwithstanding the competitiveness among businesses, there is always a huge demand for the top notch professionals within one sector. This will be possible, only and only if universities raise their standards and provide broad education and practice for their students.
	In conclusion, I would maintain that tertiary education should be more content-specific and ensure the fastest and highest quality for their graduates. Not only will professionals be able to use their university knowledge as a catalyst towards their career, but they will be able to make a living out of it for a lifetime.
Essay 1140:
	Universities play a vital role in student’s education. There is a general belief that university provides the required ammunition for the students to get on with their career. However, it can also be argued that the university is another business model and should provide knowledge for its benefit. I think a university should service the society by creating better individuals than being money making organisation. The essay will analyse the individual and social benefits created by the university in support of its service to society.
	Firstly, personality development is of paramount importance to any student. For instance, a student from a reputed university like the University of Technology, Sydney has good exposure to interpersonal skills, soft skills and theoretical knowledge. These skills are vital for students to perform well at the workplace. Additionally, these skills will get campus placements before they can complete their degree. Thus, colleges providing appropriate environment and skill development will result in the production of individuals with the required talent in the professional career.
	Secondly, society benefits cannot be discounted in the context of university education. Creating individuals with better skills create a healthy society. For example, students completing their medicine degree with better communication and people skills create a society in which all the individuals who go to that doctor will be delighted. If all the people in the community possess the right level of expertise, especially the working professional with the college degree, then the country’s economy will have a positive growth. As you can see, there is a direct correlation between college infrastructure and the society health.
	In conclusion, university providing quality knowledge and platform for all-round development will aid the individuals and society to benefit out of it. I believe that there will be an increase in the number of students who attend a university that results in the better society.
Essay 1141:
	These days, universities provide various courses which were taught by families earlier like tile fixing to makeup techniques. In spite of making such arrangements for everyone to learn these skills, some exceptional people believe that universities teach subjects only rather than focusing on real world use.
	First of all, universities have to focus on whole class instead of a bunch of students. So, universities have to come up with a course material which can be grasped by a majority of students. Employers do expect a specialised skill from an individual. However, it is an unrealistic expectation from the universities to prepare each student as per the employer's requirements. Moreover, it is difficult for a student also to imagine the need for the real world and learn the subject without experiencing it. For example, you ask a student to write a program to handle the security threats on servers. It could be very difficult for a student to write such a program as there are many viruses which target only certain types of servers.
	Another important area where universities focus is to provide the basic knowledge of the entire subject and let the students choose the job of their interest. For instance, computer engineering course teaches about databases, programming languages as well as hardware. It is up to a student to choose whether he wants to be a programmer developer or a database designer. It is certainly beneficial for the employers as well. If a fresher knows many subjects, an employer can train him on any subject as per the project requirement. For example, Infosys hires thousands of computer engineers every year in place of a Java certified students. Infosys can train computer engineer for testing or support department. However, it is difficult to train a java developer for web designing.
Essay 1142:
	Currently, there are huge debates about the main purpose of educational institutions; such as their task should be to prepare students with knowledge and expertise for employer needs or prove graduates with access to the material for their own analysing. This essay will examine both sides of the argument and will highlight the most important task of universities.
	There is no doubt that graduates must be prepared to go to the work having the knowledge and skills of the field where they plan to start work. These will improve the quality of graduates’ work and give a good impression to the employer. Also, business will be benefitted from their new employees and will allow to an organisation to survive in the rapidly developing business environment. For example, it is highly important to have the necessary knowledge to work as an accountant, otherwise, a person would not know what to do, how to perform the tasks with requirements which later will be checked by auditors. If the work was not done without necessary accuracy, the company will face many problems with the government and tax officers. Therefore, I firmly believe that it is highly important for universities to teach their students the knowledge and skills, which are essential to the business.
	Despite these arguments, there is also a case for advocating that the main task of universities is to provide an access to the materials and other resources their students for their own learning and analysing. Indeed, I believe the access is extremely important, however, without teaching how appropriate to use these materials most of the students cannot do it in a proper way required by the employer. For instance, there are a lot of different examples of preparing financial statements, the way its look and only expert can say in which particular situations could be prepared, analysed and be used this way of preparation of financial statement or a different one as well as in what kind of area could be used.
	Having considered both sides of the issue, I would argue that although universities should provide an access to knowledge for their students, educational institutions should teach how to use, learn and analyse them.
Essay 1143:
	In today's modern world, many students choose to go to university immediately after they finish school to acquire the knowledge and skills that are crucial in their future workplace. However, there are a handful of people who assert that the university should teach the students for its own sake without taking into considerations of whether it will benefit the employer. In my opinion, I think the major purpose of attending a university is to gain knowledge that is useful in our future jobs.
	In these times of austerity, people are spending most of their adult life in working just to secure a decent job. Most of the organisations are, undoubtedly, will attract the talented and knowledgeable potential employees to work for them by offering a high salary. If a university is able to provide the students all the required knowledge and skills which play an indispensable role in their prospective jobs, it is, indirectly, opening up an avenue for them to get a well-paid job. As a result, they would benefit their family by supporting them financially. Thus, universities should teach their students about the knowledge that are required in their future careers so that they can secure a well-paid job.
	In addition, most of the employers are looking at the academic qualifications which they believe will bring them advantages during the interviews of job applicants. If the graduates are equipped with the desired knowledge and skills in university, they are more likely to be successfully employed owing to the fact that they can handle most of their jobs well as compared to those who lack certain knowledge in the work field. Admittedly, it will help to lower the rate of unemployment which becomes more severe than before around the globe. Hence, it is proven that the graduates with high qualifications and knowledge required in a specific workplace will definitely get a higher chance of getting a higher position in an organisation.
	In conclusion, if all the universities are providing their students with the knowledge and skills which are important in their future careers, the graduates can easily secure a decent job with a high paid in the twenty-first century. I believe that all the graduates will achieve their aspirations in their jobs if they are well-equipped with the required knowledge.
Essay 1144:
	The main function of a university is debatable. Some people believe that it is necessarily important for a university to convey knowledge and skills to graduates which are relevant to their work field later. However, others argue that university should give access to knowledge for its own choice without regarding the impact on employer later. Personally, I believe that the essential role of a university is to provide students with basic knowledge and skills for their future career which will be elaborated trough the following paragraphs.
	To begin with, a university is responsible to share knowledge to graduates which are relevant to the subject and their career later. Students who decide to be nurses and enrol in a nurse academy should be imposed abundant knowledge about nursing. This, somehow, will enhance their insight about nursing and make them understand about disease and proper treatment. For example, providing general knowledge about the rampant virus of Ebola can establish students' idea on how to recognise the symptoms of Ebola and how to ensure the proper treatment of the patients.
	Furthermore, a university also immensely needs to boost graduates skill that will be matched with their future job. Knowledge must be accomplished by related skills to perform a better action in workplaces. Some universities support their graduates by various skills through various ways. For instance is university internship. A dentist student cannot be a good dentist if he is just supplied by knowledge about dental problems. Yet, he needs to gain skills of how to identify and recovery dental problem through direct practice in the internship. While doing practice, he will receive several skills of how to administer treatment on dental problem supporting his future career after graduation.
	All in all, basic knowledge and skills should be granted to graduates to support their activity in their workplaces.
Essay 1145:
	It is believed that a university has the role to educate students and prepare them for the future. Each individual allows to pursuit their right to learn several of subjects relying on their goals. However, it is argued that the most important function of a college or university is to prepare learners for the job. In my view, a university should regard people eagerness in term of their future work. That is why the most valuable thing for a university is to create an environment for giving space for learners to develop their skills for their future job.
	University has to spread awareness that becoming competent in school can affect students’ performance at workplaces. Even though the essential of learning in university is to pass exams, learners should realise that the real exam is after their completion of the study. They will experience how to combat with others for getting a decent job. Therefore, people who prepare earlier will gain more benefits. Based on this case, a university has the responsibility to create competitive circumstance such as in a workplace.
	Again, preparing students for the future brings some challenges that the university has to accept. Such challenges involved more practical education rather than being confined to theoretical lessons. It is inevitable that practical lessons are more important and effective than the theory we learn in university.
	Another reason is the best way to develop someone’s skill is by creating space for learners in term of their interest. Nonetheless, this is the main problem that learners face when they enter in higher education - they will lose their passion due to school curriculum which deters them to get involved in further on non-academic activities. As the result, university tends to limit students community to express and show their skill.
	In conclusion, a university should understand that preparing students for workplaces is an indispensable part in this era. University may start by setting the lecture class such workplace environment for the case and providing beneficial programmes to enhance students’ skill as an individual or group.
Essay 1146:
	Education is more important in the modern era than it was in the past and the percentage of students who complete their university education is rising significantly. Many people argue that university education should be aimed at better job prospects whereas others believe that prime objective of a university is to provide better knowledge. However, I believe that university education curriculum should be modified to include more professional training and courses to help students for their future career.
	There is no doubt that university education is expensive. People mostly go to universities to ensure a demanding job and better career prospects. Obviously, there are other reasons for people to attend higher education but having a better career is the most dominating factor these days. If the students could have applied to any job after they complete their schools, I am sure the percentage of the university going students would have decreased dramatically.   
	In my belief, universities should include workshops and practical sessions in their curriculum because the practical sessions are both job oriented and have greater effects on learning. For instance, those who go to the nursing courses have a specific goal in mind – to become a successful nurse. Similarly, if a medical student says that he is not studying to become a successful doctor, rather, to understand the human body and mind, we can take it as a possible lie.  So if the universities only provide theoretical knowledge, after graduation students will find it tough to apply the knowledge in their work field. Every government funded university costs a huge sum of money and the government has an aim for all the cost it bears –to make honest, skilled and better performing employees for the state. This single example reveals how important it is for universities to focus on creating future professionals with appropriate knowledge and skill set.  
	In addition, unemployment is a severe problem worldwide these days and the number of unemployed graduates is a daunting issue. If the universities focus more on the career-oriented education, this problem would significantly decrease. Many organisations recruit talented and experienced individual and those sort of people have a better prospect of career development. Appointing fresher in jobs is burdensome for many companies because they need to train them for several months and overall output and productivity will decline during these periods. If the university education includes some courses related to job prospects, students can perform well immediately after their graduation.
	On the other hand, some argue that university education should be for improving the knowledge level of students. Including workshop or job oriented courses will decline the value of education and it will increase the course duration. They opine that better education makes people to a have better adaptability and even though they require some initial training, they outperform others in the long run with their knowledge.
	Taking everything into consideration, it can be summarised that university education should be aimed to help students to prepare for their career. Adding workshops and job-related courses will enhance their knowledge and they will perform well in the future. It is more beneficial for each individual and for the society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1318-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-328-the-growth-in-job-market-is-demanding-for-exit-interviews-with-the-employees",
Essay 1147:
	During the last decade, organising interviews with staffs who decided to leave a workplace has become popular in many companies. I strongly agree with the idea of exit interviews and believe that it will help organisations to improve its performance and maximise the profit of the business.
	In my opinion, the exit interviews are important for the businesses who want to expand its share market because the performance of the company positively correlates with the employees’ satisfaction. For example, happy and motivated staff can work much better than unhappy people. Additionally, the level of happiness varies from person to person and during the exit interviews staff can express more open and honest opinions what was missing in the company. For this reason, I believe that exit interviews are necessary in order to understand the reasons key employees leave a company as well as bring to gather the ideas how to improve the company and inspire others to continue to work for the organisation.
	The next point that needs to be taken into consideration is that the exit interviews are relevant to a high extent to companies in the competitive job market. The quicker the organisation recognises its weaknesses and causes of losing employees, the quicker this organisation becomes more attractive to other people to work in. Moreover, the financial performance of such companies is better than those who do not try to improve staff satisfaction in the workplace.
	To sum up, I firmly believe that, there is no doubt, it is important to organise the exit interviews in order to find out the cause employees’ leave their jobs.
Essay 1148:
	Exit interview, in common HR terms, refers to the interview or survey which is conducted with an employee when he leaves the organisation. Modern business nature, increasing competition among companies and globalisation do require organisations to take every step possible to retain the key employees and to ensure safe, happy and healthy working environment to sustain and flourish. Happy employees mean better productivity and exit interviews conducted by the organisations helps taking necessary steps to ensure a happy and safe working environment for the employees.
	Exit interview, in my opinion, is a very useful method to gather data about a company’s weakness and strong areas. While leaving a company, an employee usually gives honest and frank opinion and feedback. Existing employees often conceal their dissatisfactions and does not give the whole truth when asked. Thus exit interview can help HR department of a company to detect the areas they need to bring changes. The growing job market means employees have more job options and they will always switch to the best company where satisfaction and healthy working environment is offered. Thus many other organisations will lose valuable and experienced employees only because of their lack of initiatives. Exit interviews could be the main pillar to bring out the necessary changes in an organisation.
	Again, an exit interview often gives the management a chance to learn the main reasons someone is leaving them. This can be an excellent opportunity to retain key employees as it opens the possibility of discussion and negotiation. For instance, many employees leave a company due to personal issues and the management can assure them about it and can request them to stay in the exit interviews. Finally, from exit interviews, a company can also learn about their strengths and can focus more on that. This can be helpful to do better in competitive business nature.
	In my opinion, exit interviews in this competitive job market is an essential method and an important process to make sure a satisfactory and healthy working environment for employees and thus doing better and profitable business.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1317-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-327-should-governments-spend-more-money-on-improving-public-transportation",
Essay 1149:
	The transportation system is one of the serious problems in this day which is related to traffic congestion and air pollution. A suitable decision will always think by the government to cope this issue. There are two points which the government can choose, whether they want to expense money on developing roads and highways or spend money on improving public transportation. I definitely agree for improving public transportation for some reasons.
	First and foremost, it is an impossible way to build roads and highways today, because the large areas are not available. For instance, in an urban area, it is hard to find a wide place because most of these places in here are used to built houses and other building. Thus, the government cannot find a space to build new roads or highways. Whereas, if the government still aspire to continue this program it seems that a new problem will create, such as traffic jam.
	In addition, it is wise if the government can reduce the number of private vehicles and improve the number of public transportation. There was a sharp rise of private transportation every year. However, if the government can reduce it by making a distinct rule to appeal the society to use public transportation, the traffic issue would be in a better situation. Thus, traffic jam can solve and air pollution can reduce too.
	In conclusion, I believe that improving public transportation is the best way to solve the transportation problem, rather than building roads and highways. When the government builds new ones, the numbers of vehicles do not decrease, but it will increase.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1316-the-idea-of-having-a-single-career-is-becoming-old-fashioned",
Essay 1150:
	It is believed that focusing on a single career is out of date these days. The new trend is that people should have several kinds of occupations in their life, and they should never stop learning. The following essay will explain in details about why people should have several careers in their life and why they should continue their education till the end.
	It is a fact that in the old days, most of the people were loyal to their company, focused on their occupations and stayed there until they retired. However, some people believed that the act is old fashioned and people should have various kind of experiences in their life. Having a different kind of working experiences is a precious asset since people could bring innovative ideas from their previous company and implement it in their current workplace. Besides that, to become a general leader, people should have had experiences in different types of working functions. For example, a Managing Director manages the company in overall, and it would be best if he had experienced in the field of Finance, Production, Human Resources and Sales.
	Furthermore, it is undeniable that continuous education is an essential thing these days. People need to update with the current information of the economy, information technology and science as they change and develop rapidly. Those who are not following the latest information and regulations will face difficulties in their careers. For instance, people who work in the Information technology sector should update themselves with the latest type of antivirus software, since many new viruses which are threatening the networks these days. Those who fail to update their software will face serious problems in their database.
	In conclusion, I personally believe that having different types of works in life is a positive thing and bring a lot of benefits to the person's career, and it is important for people to study or learn throughout their life as the world never stop to develop.
Essay 1151:
	Choosing a career and making a living out of it is an important decision in a person’s life. There is an increasing trend of creating different ways to generate income to afford a balanced lifestyle. This essay analyses the financial and health benefits of having several streams of income.
	Money can buy all the material items in life that create happiness. For example, a person can choose to buy a luxury car, afford an international annual family vacation and a lavish lifestyle, provided he has the abundant financial support. Having different ways of earning money will help the individuals to attain required financial freedom to afford a balanced living. On the other hand, if a person has a single source of income then it becomes difficult for a person to manage the monthly commitments.
	Health is an important wealth any individual should accumulate in his life creating a happy living. Creating a right balance of intellectual and physical activity can create a healthy body. In olden days, an individual chose a single career path and struggled to master the talent. Whereas, in current days, people create choices to find a career path that maximises their talent potential. Constant improvement in individual’s talent creates new avenues to generate income. Thus, exploring several career options will create healthy individuals.
	After analyzation of the financial and health benefits of the people who choose to have multiple career choices and several income streams, it is evident that this new trend should continue through the life to create a challenging yet happy living.
Essay 1152:
	In the past, it was common for people to have a single career to make a living. This is understandable because people in the past had limited chance to pursue tertiary education and less opportunity to use the technology to work remotely. The barriers have been removed and many people already have started having a diverse career with more than one jobs at a time.
	In the past, the cost of continuing education in the university or college was very expensive and people found ti unaffordable in most of the cases. This is why after graduating from secondary school, people started working. With the limited knowledge they had, they seemed to be satisfied with a single career as long as they could survive by the salary earned. Nevertheless, many people think that it is an old-fashioned way of making a living. Their assumption is that the new trend for people living in a modern society will be to have several careers or ways of earning money. In addition, they think that further education will be something that continued throughout the life.
	Apart from that, I could not agree more that further education is something that will continue throughout the life. In this competitive world, a college degree can no longer provide job security to people. According to a news reported by CNN, KPMG which is a very big multinational company with a lot of branches around the world told the reporter that the employers no longer look for candidates with just a degree certificate in hand. What the employers want are the practical experience and skills that the candidates possessed. Apart from that, in order to avoid the fate of retrenchment, people will probably enrol in part-time courses to enhance the value of their resume while working as full-time employees.
	In conclusion, many people will find it hard to survive today with just a single career. Thus, people tend to work for several careers to earn as much money as they can and education becomes part of their career enhancement.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1315-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-325-schools-and-libraries-should-ban-computer-games-from-their-premises",
Essay 1153:
	Computer games have their advantages in terms of enhancing imagination, hand-eye coordination, cognitive development and increasing computer operational skills. However, this is a double-edged sword which can negatively affect students if they spend too much time on computer games and get addicted to those games. I completely agree that computer games should be prohibited in classrooms, schools and libraries. There are various reasons for my opinion and the following paragraphs will discuss my reasons in details.
	First of all, academic boundaries and libraries are primarily for gathering knowledge, learning new lessons and focusing on study. If students start playing computer games in classrooms and in libraries, they will definitely be distracted from their main objective in schools and thus they will perform very poorly in exams. This will have a very negative consequence both on the school authorities and students. Hence banning computer games from school and library premises is a good idea.
	Second, computer games are very addictive, especially the modern strategic games that require hours after hours for a gamer to play in front of computers. Those games are obviously more alluring for young students and if they are allowed they will play those digital games all day long. This is a huge waste of valuable time which could have been used for learning new things and for gathering knowledge.
	Again, every activity has its proper places and times. Banning computer games from school premises only make sure that students spend their time prudently. If someone finds computer games informative and helpful, he can play it home or in other places than the schools and libraries. Finally, too much computer games can decrease a student’s eye-sight, negatively affect his psychology and can increase violent activities which would be very detrimental to the future of a student. The bloodshed and violence used in many computer games would definitely ruin the peaceful environment a school premise needs to ensure quality education.
	Considering all the above points, I strongly agree that completely banning computer games in school and library premises is a very good idea for the betterment of all. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1314-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-324-some-employers-reward-members-of-staff-for-their-exceptional-contribution",
Essay 1154:
	Excellent performance by employees in an organisation is usually rewarded in different ways and giving money to the best employee is a common trend in most of the organisations. Though this is a good way to motivate employees to work harder and better and engage in a positive competition, some people opine that this is not the best way to encourage employee. They think that there are better alternatives for this type of rewards. In my opinion money as a reward in combination with other motivations can be the best way for encouraging people to work harder.
	First of all, one of the main reasons people work in an office is money. No matter how cordially we deny the fact that we work for money, the reality is we need money to support our family, our personal needs and to live in this world. There are definitely other factors like job satisfaction, passion for work, working environment, career prospect, relationship with co-workers and bosses that determine whether an employee is motivated to work in an organisation or not but the money the employee gets at the end of each week or month is the main determining factor. From this regard, additional money as a reward for exceptional contribution by a staff is the best way to motivate him.
	Some people would argue that there are definitely better ways to motivate an employee for an exceptional performance like allowing extended holidays, giving crest, congratulating and praising. They also think that giving money to the employee of the month has a detrimental impact on others. I quite disagree with this opinion from my personal experience. I worked in a multinational company where more than 200 people worked. The best employee of the month used to get more than $600 and a certificate. This worked quite well as most of the employees in different teams wanted to be the employee of the month for the prestige and the money. I am pretty positive that other forms of rewards would have motivated employees for a short period but would not ignite the performance completion among employees in a long run.
	Again, I think that giving additional money to an employee for his work performance would not create any negative impact on others. Any form of rewards like a plane ticket, crest, certificate, holidays is quite restricted in terms of their utilisation while money would give the employee complete freedom on how to spend it.  For instance what if an employee wants to buy his mother a gift with the additional money he might earns- only money as a reward would ensure that. Finally, the motivations and encouragements are not universal and hence do not apply for all. This varies from person to person. While money can motivate the majority of the employees some of them might already have it in plenty and could find motivation from the praising and positive feedbacks from bosses. From this regards, congratulations from higher authority, certificate along with the money would be most effective to inspire workers to work even better in my opinion.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1313-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-323-the-private-motor-vehicle-has-greatly-improved-individual-freedom-of-movement",
Essay 1155:
	The wheel is considered by many as the greatest invention in human history and the motor vehicles that we use these days is the main reason we live in the industrial age. The ease of transportation and freedom to move goods from one place to another is the main driving factor for a modern era. Yet, the use of private vehicles endangers the environment to a great extent and leads to many serious problems including sound and air pollution, accident, congestions on roads and many more. There are many steps we can take to reduce the number of private motor vehicles running on roads to ensure the safety of the environment and to make the world livable for the upcoming generations.
	First of all, improving the public transportation system would encourage people to use those instead of relying on their private cars. People mostly buy private cars to have a comfortable commuting experience though maintaining private cars is far more expensive. If the public transportation facility is improved, many people would reduce using their private vehicles. Secondly, increasing the price of fuel could be another great measure to discourage people from using and buying private cars. It is natural that enhanced fuel price would increase the cost of maintaining private cars and thus more people would think twice before purchasing a new car. In addition, more taxes should be imposed on private car ownership.
	Thirdly, traffic rules should be more strictly imposed and practised so that people can’t use private cars if there are less than 3 passengers in the car. This rule is applied in many cities and thus they have successfully reduced the number of private cars running on their roads. For goods transportation, water and railway should be used. Usually, water and rail transports can carry a great more amount of products than the road vehicles and that should be strictly followed. Then, individual awareness is required to reduce the use of private cars. People tend to use their cars even for a small distance. Walking and cycling should be promoted so that people rely on their cars less and thus pollute the environment less. Finally, the ownership of cars should be restricted based on the number of family members, the number of vehicles a single family can purchase and based on their gross incomes.
	In conclusion, the private motor vehicles have great advantages but they severely pollute the environment. Hence their usages should be reduced by promoting public transportations, making laws strict, increasing fuel price and by creating awareness among mass people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1312-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-322-success-is-easy-to-attain-but-difficult-to-maintain",
Essay 1156:
	Every human being desires success from his own perspective. Though success in life is a relative term and could vary greatly from person to person, being able to fulfil dreams and ambitions and being able to be recognised among people is a common definition we can attach to the term success. While a sports personality desire success by doing some ground breaking records in his sports, a new actor can dream to perform in a big budget hit movie as his success. When this actor gains some fame, he might desire to win the Oscar prize and can make it his milestone for success. It is often said that success might be easy to gain but more difficult to maintain and I completely agree with this notion.
	First of all, hard work, determination and talent are required to gain success. If we consider a new employee who might expect to reach the higher ladder of his career and works really hard, he might one day fulfil his dream. But the real challenge is in performing the duties as a senior executive and that’s even harder than reaching this position. A singer, movie actor and sportsman can gain fame and success by showing superb performance once and everybody will then look at them and expect them to perform well continuously. This is not that easy and requires even more hard work to maintain the performance. If we look at the movie industries, it is not uncommon that many new actors and actresses show great potential in their early state of career but can’t reach the position they ought to have due to their lack of hard work and determination. Luck often plays its tricks but if we omit the part played by the luck, it remains hard works, determination and excellent performance which become even harder when someone gains popularity.
	Second, we all have our short term and long term ambitions and being able to accomplish a goal does not stop us from dreaming even bigger dreams. Being successful for someone does not mean that he can then stop and enjoy his success. It opens new possibilities and responsibilities and to reach the next level, we need to work harder at that stage. Maintaining success means performing excellence all the time which in reality is a very hard to maintain.
	Third, the definition of success is ever changing even for a single person. A 10 years old child defines his success by achieving excellent grades and it changes as soon as he enters in his career. The successful students then have to work harder to prove his supremacy among other talented workers. Thus when he attains success and reach in a higher position of a company, he then needs to take even bigger responsibilities. A single blunder can then ruin his career and shatter his dream of further success. This keeps on changing and thus success in different states in life varies. Continuous efforts and works are required to maintain success for a person in his life.
	In conclusion, it is indeed true that maintaining success is far more difficult than achieving it as it requires even more hard works and continuous excellent performance in every field.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1311-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-321-a-healthy-person-is-often-described-as-someone-who-has-a-good-diet",
Essay 1157:
	Nowadays to have an appropriate living condition, people usually follow different outlines, including having regular sports activities, eating healthy foods and having sufficient relaxation time. I think these methods can reduce the risk of cancer, hypertension and depression.
	Obviously, I definitely give the green light to those having a healthy diet. The best reason is that this group of people will become less vulnerable to a variety of malignancies. Clearly, processed foods, which are served in many fast food restaurants, can increase the risk of colon cancer fundamentally, according to American Journal of Cancers. Unfortunately, now many humans are used to eating out ,just over twice a week, causing them to become at risk of many Gastrointestinal cancers far more than the ones using home-cooked food.
	The second healthy habit is having regular sports activities. Admittedly, one of the leading causes of hypertension is obesity, and to come up with it, doctors firmly recommend their patients to have minimum one hour of daily regular exercise. As a prime example, had not my father had enough regular activity, he would have suffered more from hypertension complications; however, fortunately, he followed his doctor’s recommendations and could overcome it.
	Lastly, suppressing of anxiety could be another plan for having a less stressful lifestyle. Many citizens are at risk of tremendous stress in their daily life, including workplace conflicts or traffic congestion, leading them to be more under pressure mentally. They will gradually become more sleepless, isolated and depress. As a result, considering some periods of relaxation can assist them overcome with their low moods.
	In conclusion, having appropriate diet, exercise and leisure activities are extremely important to humans. I personally believe that this living condition not only will reduce the risk of hypertension and cancer, but depression will become less risky to citizens.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1310-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-320-it-is-always-an-individual-who-is-the-impetus-for-innovation",
Essay 1158:
	It is true that many explorations are nominated to a person than to a group of people. Although all members of a team might have had equal influential roles to launch a new idea, only one is considered as the prime winner. I think this is because of three reasons, having a higher degree of qualifications, better networking or being more affluent.
	Obviously, the first reason behind it is that one individual, being accredited to innovation, usually have a higher level of certifications from a highly recognised institution. As a prime example, although Bill Gate’s team had a prominent role for his achievements in the computer software, he became more prosperous because his degree was from the Harvard College.
	Another factor is that some individuals have better networking. Many of scientists or linguistics, selected for the noble prize, surpassed their coworkers working with the same project due to having better communications. Participating in more international meetings, these experts can find more opportunities to expose their talents to famous scientists, helping them to achieve their innovation, while this person had only been one member of a whole team.
	Lastly, I think money talks. Clearly, wealth has an important role in overstating of the success of an individual. For instance, Anousheh Ansari, a female American-Iranian explorer, could become the first space tourist because she could afford twenty million dollars. Had not she been so rich, she would not have become so prosperous in this matter. She worked as a member of a team to prepare herself to fly by a spacecraft around the Earth, but she was the only one who was recognised by the press.
	In conclusion, instead of appreciating the whole team of innovators, sometimes a specific individual is chosen by the judge. I personally believe that having a better communication, educational position and financial backup are the reasons why one human can become more successful than the other members of a group.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1309-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-319-smoking-should-be-permitted-in-places-where-people-gather-to-eat-or-drink",
Essay 1159:
	Today, there is a huge debate about freedom of smoking in the public areas. Although some people believe that smokers should be allowed to smoke in open areas, I personally disagree with it because I think this habit can have more obvious side effects on citizens’ health. It can increase the risk of cancer, asthma and sudden death of newborns.
	One obvious risk of smoking is cancer. Passive smokers, who inhale the smoke of cigarette of smokers, usually endanger their health even more than the smokers, based on the studies implemented by American Cancer Institute. Their lungs intake more smoke chemicals, and smoking dust is extremely harmful to these people’s lungs. Another dangerous effect is a sudden death of newborns. Paediatrics have proven that those mothers, who have been more exposed to the smoke, their infants are usually more considerably vulnerable to congenital disorders, and ultimately the rate of mortality can be increased. Breathing over thousands of perilous materials in each puff of smoke can notably raise the risk of abortion in passive pregnant smokers.
	Lastly, it can be far risky to asthmatic people. This group usually have a worse irritative respiratory system than the normal humans, and their lung are inflamed by any dust particles, including smoke dust; therefore, even by breathing one minute of smoke in the public, their health will be jeopardised far dramatically.
	In conclusion, second-hand smoking is very risky to all humans, especially those having respiratory diseases. I personally believe that this habit not only can increase the risk of malignancy, but asthmatic attacks and infant mortality will become more highly dangerous. If I was a governor, I would consider more restrictions to smokers visiting public locations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1308-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-318-why-is-careful-planning-important-in-the-development-of-cities",
Essay 1160:
	In this modern world, the rapid increase in the number of population and vehicles is a serious challenge for the governments across the world. To accommodate the maximum number of people and vehicles in a city they have to enhance the size of it. In this essay writer would like to discuss why careful planning is crucial when building a city.
	To embark upon, first and foremost problem behind a broader city is that it causes deforestation. To make it clear, as they need more timber to build beautiful buildings and to make bigger cities they need more space so they grab the space of wild animals, so scientific planning is necessary. More importantly, this devastation of trees can cause air pollution so they should not imbalance natural habitat to build a huge city. Apart from this, they should have a proper waste management system most of the cities are facing this catastrophic problem such as recycling units and disposal units in the city.
	Furthermore, the government needs to plan well when building a city. As we know there are many sophisticated cities that struggle with the inefficient drainage system, such as Bombay, Tokyo and the like. Moreover, narrow roads can cause traffic congestion and it is impossible for them to reconstruct a city after building it. In addition to this, modern cities should be well connected with other major cities through seaways as well as road and airways. The cities have many visitors not only as visitors but also for trading and for dwelling so modern cities should be big enough to accommodate more people. Moreover, these should have ultra modern facilities such as schools, colleges and hospitals.
	To conclude, in this era most of the countries development are mainly concentrated in their cities so it is quite necessary to have a developed city but, these developments should be scientific.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1307-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-317-explain-why-the-movies-are-as-popular-as-a-means-of-entertainment",
Essay 1161:
	Today, movies have become a complete and favourite form of entertainment and it has outweighed other art forms like dramas, concert and the like. In this essay, I would like to discuss why people are attracted to movies.
	To commence with, movies are a complete package with attractive videos, songs, action and the like. To go deep inside, when a person watches a concert, dance or any other art form, they either get visual or audio experience, while movies have made with attractive songs, action scene, theme and dances. More importantly, they shoot in different locations around the world and that is an essential ingredient to make a story and film more attractive, that is how it has overtaken the popularity of dramas. Movies provide enormous flexibility to its viewers. To make it clear, movies can be seen from anywhere any time such as while travelling, by eating or cooking food and the like. Most of the movies are based on real-life stories or happenings when people watch movies each person gets the feeling that he or she represent that hero and it creates an emotional involvement with the movie and that force people to watch more movies.
	Furthermore, as we know the world has different kinds of people in the sense of age group and in their taste, but, films are popular among all of them with its unnatural ability and a huge variety of story. To exemplify, for children, there are fiction and cartoon movies, for youngsters ,action movies, scientific movies and the same for old people and family.
	To conclude, there are hundreds of movies are released every day in different languages across the globe and that shows its overwhelming popularity among billions of people. Though over dependence on movies can have a detrimental effect on people, the movies are real boons to the people with its entertaining abilities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1306-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-316-failure-is-proof-that-the-desire-wasn-t-strong-enough",
Essay 1162:
	Everyone has undergone through difficult changes and experienced ups and downs in his or her life. It is undoubtedly a normal trend in our life. However, I do not entirely agree that failure is dependent only on someone’s insufficient wish to succeed in a specific area.
	It does not seem unreasonable to suggest that during evaluation of this situation many factors should be counted. Someone, for instance, may have set a goal to launch a business but unexpectedly got married. This case is understandable and does not deserve any blame. One may prefer making a family while another would rather continue going straightforward to his or her dream. It is an individual choice based on personal preferences and life principles.
	On the other hand, I agree that failure means the person was not goal-driven and self-disciplined enough. This relates to many cases including a well-known problem with obesity. If a person has decided to lose a certain amount of weight then no obstacles should stop him. He does not have to give any easy or make excuses. In fact, if his goal is not achieved, as a result he will not prove to himself he is strong and motivated human being. It means his wish was not powerful enough.
	The famous and great people of history have tried many things over and over again and there were lots of experiment that were not successful. The failure is not the key measurement of the determination and effort put towards accomplishing something.,
	One could draw the conclusion that everything depends on an individual. Human being may accomplish tremendous results as a proof of indescribably powerful motivation or end up without completing fully his task.
Essay 1163:
	It is believed that when people fail, it means that he did not have enough determination. I personally disagree with the statement, as I believe that failure is the learning process in life and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	Some people think that when we fail in doing things in life, it means that we are not serious enough in doing them. Many people think that when people have a strong determination, they will try their best in their work, and they will succeed. Failure should not be an option if things are prepared well.
	However, many people do not realise that behind the great achievement of successful people, they also have had failure moments. But these people had learned from their mistakes and improved their work, and as a consequence, they got better results. For example, Michael Jordan was dropped from his elementary school basketball team since the coach believed that he had not talent in basketball. But then Michael consistently practised his shooting ability and worked harder than all the other students. In the end, he became one of the great basketball legends in NBA history. Another exemplary case could be Thomas Edison who invented the light bulb. Doing so he had failed several times but these failures do not indicate that this one of the greatest inventors of all time had the lack of determination or desire. Rather he learned from his failures and finally invented a working lightbulb that was the base for the modern electric light bulbs we use nowadays.
	In conclusion, I do not agree when people think that failure is a result of less encouragement and a lack of motivation. I believe that failure is a moment in life, where we should inspect our life and try to improve things. Once we do that, I am certain that we will achieve more in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1305-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-315-students-can-become-very-tired-both-emotionally-and-physically",
Essay 1164:
	First and foremost, the knock on effects of the education on the life of individuals can be profound and undeniable. Nowadays, there are lots of high school or ordinary school students. One group of individuals put forward that students can become emotionally and physically tired while preparing examination while others do not agree.
	We must acknowledge that nowadays education has become very difficult. Almost all students suffer from mentally and physically tiring while preparing for exams. For example, statistics proved that average students should prepare 5 hours daily in order to pass the forthcoming exams. Naturally, it tires students mentally. In addition, they should spend their whole time in the various libraries, to find necessary information. As a result, it obvious that students may become tired which would influence their exam performance negatively.
	Nevertheless, for the time being, it is undeniable fact that, students should make efforts in order to achieve their desire. Almost all students work hard and do their best to take a diploma from the universities. For example, they make a lot of effort to have a degree because nowadays it is almost impossible to have a good job position without a university degree or diploma. Moreover, although visiting libraries every day makes them feel exhausted, they gain plenty of information and enhance their knowledge and experience. As a consequence, it is clear that hardworking students always think their future life and it inspires them to do their best for their education.
	In conclusion, from the examples above we can say that, it is true that preparing for exams is not as easy as we think. However, without working hard, students will not achieve their future aims.
Essay 1165:
	It is a fact that most students are stressed when they face examination. In order to pass the test, they must focus and study hard, and consequently they get tired both mentally and physically. I personally think that there are several things that students must notice during this period and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	It is undeniable that the most stressful part of students' life is when they face examination. The pressure to obtain good grade and pass the test have significantly affected to students' mental and physic condition, as they have studied for such long hours in their room. In certain cases, some of the students got sick after they have done the examination, while in another case, several of the students got depressed and paranoia.
	In order to avoid any negative things happen to students during the examination preparation period, there are several things that they could do. Firstly, students should learn to manage their time properly. By setting their time and priorities properly, they could balance between their study and relaxation time. Secondly, during this period, students should also do some light exercises. Based on the scientific research, it is found that doing some physical exercises will affect to the human body's blood circulation, which will give positive effect to the brain performance. Lastly, they should consume healthy foods and consume multivitamins, in order to keep their body strong and healthy. Choosing the right types of diets and taking some supplements will help them in maintaining their stamina and avoiding any illness.
	In conclusion, it is true that students could become tired and weary when they prepare for the examination. I believe that there are some things that student could do to anticipate any bad things happen to them, such as managing their time properly, doing some light exercises and consuming the right types of food. I am sure that that, by doing these kinds of things, students will get their maximum results in their exam and they will be physically healthy.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1304-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-314-these-days-noise-and-air-pollution-are-serious-environmental-problems",
Essay 1166:
	With the increasing population and industrialisation, the level of air and noise pollution is increasing faster than ever before and these two forms of pollutions are some serious threats for all of us. There are many reasons why these pollutions are increasing faster than ever before while air travel and an increasing number of vehicles on the roads are two main reasons for that. I think the restriction on both, air travel and car ownership, is necessary to control the noise and air pollution.
	The number of flights around the globe is overwhelming. A busy airport gets multiple air landing and departure every minute and air travels have already gained huge popularity among business people and tourists. Moreover, the cheap air travel has increased the number of people who travel in the air than the past. But apart from looking at the convenience, the air travel has brought to us, we need to consider the pollutions these aeroplanes are causing. The amount of air pollution caused by a single flight is unimaginable. Since we live in a global era, banning air travel is not possible and international trade and communication mostly rely on air transportations. So a thoughtful decision should be taken and the number of domestic flights should be restricted as people can easily make the journey using other transportation systems. The luxury air travel like going on holiday tours or visiting relatives should be restricted. Alternative sources of aeroplane fuel that would cause less pollution should be researched and introduced.
	On the other hand, the number of cars running on roads is rising rapidly. The pollutions these cars are causing is unbelievable. The restriction on owning more than one car, promoting public transportation system and imposing heavy taxes on car ownership could be some very effective measures to reduce the pollutions. Hundreds of thousands of cars are running on roads in a big city and each one of them are emitting dangerous gases that contributes to the Green House Effect and pollute the air and environment. The noise pollution is increasing rapidly and affecting the children as well as adults in many harmful ways.
	In conclusion, aeroplanes and vehicles running on roads are both responsible for the environmental damage and pollution and hence restriction on both should be imposed in  a way so that the pollutions could be reduced to a great extent.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1303-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-313-music-is-played-in-every-society-and-culture-in-the-world-today",
Essay 1167:
	Music is considered as the foods for our souls and its relationship with human race is so intense that we cannot think of a single country or society that does not have its own music. Music is related to our relaxation, our festival, our national pride, prayer, daily activities, joys, celebration and many important aspects of our personal and social life. I believe that pure music is always pleasing and brings benefits to both society and culture. The negative effect of music is so unheard of and I believe that we need music for our personal motivation, festivals, celebration, different occasions and expressing our inner joys and respect for things we love.
	First of all, music is a form of joy which is tied with our existence. It is a form of expression which can be understood and expressed so easily. Possibly music is the only form of art that we can feel so deeply and need in every part of our personal and social life. Music is the composition of lyrics, melody, instruments, feelings and experience that articulate our life and we have our favourite music based on our understanding and preference. Other forms of arts are restricted within a perimeter but music has no boundaries- it lives beyond ages and borders.
	Positive influences of music are enormous – it heals our wound, it motivates us, it refreshes our mind, it reminds us our past and the list goes on and on. The music a society or country adopts reflects its traditions, cultures, history and unique features. The national anthem- which is also a music- is revered by all the countrymen and inspires people. Music is a part of prayer in many religions and cultures.
	Now if we judge how music can bring negative effects, which I do not agree with, we will have to consider the people who are basically claiming it.  When people say that foreign music is harmful to a particular tradition, they are not actually complaining about the music, rather people’s choice of music. The generation gap is another reason that can bring up the opinions that modern music is harmful to young people. That’s something I also disagree. This generation gap exists in all centuries and it is pretty common that older generation would complain about the choice made by the new generation, especially in music.  
	Finally, it is really hard to find an individual who does not like music. His music choice might be different but his overall need and feelings for music are positive. The music is an important part of a society and every society has its relationship with music. The music reflects a society and the unique way of life in that society.
	In conclusion, I think music plays an important role in our life and its relationship with a society or country is unparalleled. The negative effects of music on an individual or society is a rare issue which we can easily control with our love to our own tradition. The positive aspects of music and its need in our life are endless.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1302-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-312-sporting-champions-used-to-be-motivated-by-the-desire-to-win-a-match",
Essay 1168:
	In the bygone days, the aim of an athlete was to win the competition or to set a new world record. Nowadays, it has changed, as many players are motivated by the prize and the popularity. The following essay will discuss how the effect of the changes to the young generation and how it has affected to the sports industry.
	To begin with, as athletes’ motivation has changed nowadays, it brings some negative effects to the young people. It is a fact that many football or basketball stars are highly paid and become very popular these days. The condition has led them into a luxurious or glamorous lifestyle, and many of them are married to a famous actress or a supermodel. It has conveyed some negative messages to the young people that professional athletes world is a world of parties, wealth and hedonism lifestyles. Meanwhile, in the past, athletes’ motivation was to be the best in his field and become a good role model for the young generation with their hardworking attitude.
	As professional players are highly paid these days, it has changed the paradigm of the sports industry. Sports leagues are becoming commercialised as they need the money to pay these athletes. Ticket prices are ridiculously expensive, and during a live game on television, so many commercials are added. And then, many games are showing more of an individual attraction rather than a solid teamwork, as each of the athletes is trying to become the dominant player. And last but not least, many sports leagues are filled with negative issues nowadays due to the commercialization, such as athletes strike on salary cap or corruption by some sports bodies.
	In conclusion, it is true that sports have become an attractive business nowadays. Many athletes are well paid and sports leagues have become a great opportunity for some parties. Despite all the fortunes, the pure essences of sports which are sportive, teamwork and discipline are all lost. Athletes are becoming more individualistic and have some negative lifestyles and it could be a bad example for the young generation. And then sports industrialisation has negatively affected many sports organisations. Therefore it is the government’s task to set some clear regulation about the world of sport.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1301-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-311-parents-should-teach-their-children-how-to-be-healthy",
Essay 1169:
	Promoting good health is essential for children towards his own well-being. At home, parents should teach their children about the importance of eating a balanced diet. Children ought to learn healthy lifestyle from parents and that would make a healthy nation. However, others believed that school is the best place to learn this. This essay will examine both sides of the arguments.
	There is no doubt that parents have great responsibilities in their children's diet and health. First, is to make healthful food choices. Since they are the one who provide meals, it is their responsibility to ensure these meals are nutritious and healthy. Secondly, parents should encourage their children to avoid junk foods and sugary snacks during the day. Giving emphasis on what foods to be avoided and serving a variety of foods with fruits and vegetables every day.
	However, a school has a lot to offer that covers many aspects of promoting a healthy lifestyle and balanced diet. Health education has always been a part of school curriculum which helped children understanding the importance of having a healthy diet and developing healthy eating habits. Children are exposed to a variety of health themes in school such as disease prevention, physical activity and nutrition to raise healthy behaviours. In addition, they have useful tools and resources offered as part of the lesson. For example, kitchen and food garden lessons at school that connects students to the healthy lifestyle. Moreover, a school has broad health topics including nutrition guidelines, physical fitness that elicits health promotion.
	On balance, having considering both sides of the issues, although parents have the ultimate responsibility to their children about healthcare and balanced diet, I would agree that school is the best place to learn healthy habits and proper diet. Parents should continue encouraging their youngster to make healthy food choices while school teaches them everything how to improve children's health.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1300-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-310-it-is-the-responsibility-of-a-government-to-protect-its-citizens-from-natural-disasters",
Essay 1170:
	For many years natural calamities and disasters have been mankind's greatest enemy. The word goes with its literal meaning 'natural', that is involuntary in nature. Humans have no control over it. Nevertheless, there are steps that can be taken to prevent it and reduce the magnitude of its consequences.  Taking this in view, some people think that government solely is responsible for protecting its citizens, while, others oppose this by saying that individuals play an indispensable role in safeguarding themselves. This essay will provide an in-depth evaluation of the matter before coming to an appropriate conclusion.
	First of all, in this high- tech world, it is nearly impossible for us to control or prevent these disasters. Nowadays, media in the form of Television and newspapers are creating awareness among the people to tackle these situations, even before they face it. For example, Cyclones; category 5 cyclone hit Australia in 2015, people were warned beforehand through TV about the occurrence and necessary steps were taken immediately to minimise the loss. Similarly, newspapers have articles about what to expect in times of earthquakes and so on. Furthermore, people today are much more educated to take initiatives themselves. For example, individuals nowadays build houses that are disaster proof.
	Moreover, along with the citizens, the government also plays an important role in protecting its people. According to me, a generous amount of money should be spent on architectural works. Buildings should be made so strong that it even stands high magnitude earthquake. One such example is, UAE, it is currently including iron pillars and iron wheels so that the building can withstand high force. In addition, the government should provide to the people with adequate resources to reduce the amount of loss. For example, in cases of cyclones, sand bags should be supplied in abundance to the coastal areas to avoid flooding. Lastly, after the disaster has occurred, appropriate rescue plans should be executed with efficient medical facilities and compensation for the loss if practical, need to be provided.
	To conclude, from the aforementioned contributions, it is crystal clear that the government has the major role to play in overcoming the disasters caused by natural calamities. But, to be mentioned, it works better if goes together with the co-operation of the citizens too.
Essay 1171:
	As much as the Nature is beautiful, it can wreck havoc and the resulting natural disasters often do not come with a warning.  A natural disaster can hit a region any time and it is always thought to be a responsibility of the local government to protect their people from it.
	According to me, the government can be held responsible for a disaster that was predicted and could have been averted. For e.g. floods. A region that has high a rainfall prediction has a high possibility of being flooded. Such regions should have more dams built which can control the excess water due to rain. Similarly, regions with low rainfall prediction should have advanced facilities like rain-water harvesting so that the people can get adequate water for drinking, farming, etc.
	Having said this, the government may not be able to protect their people in all natural disasters for e.g. a tsunami, a volcanic eruption or a hurricane. A few years back two countries in Asia namely Sri Lanka and India were on the receiving end of the wrath of nature in the form of Tsunami. Thousands of people died and there was a substantial loss of property and livestock as well. Similarly, The United States has witnessed many cyclones in history and the people have suffered a lot of damage despite The States being the most powerful country in the world with a strong government at the helm.
	The citizens should be aware and take responsibility as well. Local governments of the natural disaster-prone areas should take additional steps to forecast and broadcast the news to minimise the natural disaster. The forecasting system and technology related to weather forecasting should be updated to take precaution so that people of the area get the news before the disaster hit the area. The government should allocate a budget and manpower to help the victim of the natural disaster. Thus the devastating outcome of the natural calamities can often be reduced.
	Thus, in conclusion, I feel that government should be responsible for the safety of its people but in some cases, it fails to do so against nature.
Essay 1172:
	Natural disasters are sudden and cause severe damages. The impact is worst if citizens are unprepared to handle the disaster. Though natural disasters are unpredictable, they often follow a pattern. Based on the trend, disaster-prone areas can be classified and disaster management plan should include necessary preparedness to handle any such situation. I feel it is the responsibility of the government to protect its people from any natural calamities.
	Only Government can frame a macro level policy to address various related issues related to disaster holistically. Though, the macro level policy can only be successful with micro-level initiatives and awareness. Hence, the government needs to involve its people so that they become aware of various stages of disaster management and need to disseminate the message properly that how the people can save their valuables and life in case of any natural calamities. The government can also ask for innovative proposals from its citizens on how to handle disasters as the nature of problem varies from area to area, it is important to consider those contextual complexities while designing a disaster management planning.
	Proper weather forecasting system should be in place to generate the accurate forecasting and then the technological help should be taken to broadcast this information to the people. The aftermath of a disaster is always devastating and the government should take immediate steps to rescue the victim and provide aid to minimise the catastrophe.    
	The Government represents people of a country and act for the well-being of its population. Hence, to handle natural disaster cooperation between all the actors may it be the local government, civil society organisations, or local people are vital.
Essay 1173:
	Everyone as an individual has his or her responsibility to safeguard themselves from such type of disasters. The main responsibility lies on the part of the government which is consisting of the people, represented by the people and formed for the people. The government has no role and is dormant if it does not help its citizens in time of need.
	As far as my opinion is concerned I fully agree that government has to look after its citizens during such events of natural disasters which are of large scale. The responsibility of government has to be portrayed in the perilous times and in the times of need when a disaster occurs.
	It is well known that a natural disaster occurs naturally and due to its unimaginable fierceness, the intensity of damage it may cause cannot be estimated. As an individual people can protect himself at his capacity but damages to a larger extent cannot be handled by an individual. For a natural disaster whose intensity is unknown, prevention and rescue operation should not be underestimated and relief operations of such large scale can only be dealt by the Government only.
	It is vital that Government has to act in such type of situations by the way of evacuating people from the affected areas, setting up temporary relief camps, providing them essential commodities like water, milk etc, and setting up clinics to stop the spread of  communicable diseases. Apart from the preventive measures, Government at a large scale can provide help tackle the aftermath the disaster causes in restoring the normalcy which cannot be done individually.
	If we see the damages caused by a natural disaster it is so voluminous that sometimes even it is hard for the government to handle the situation. It is obvious that government works for the welfare of the people and without the people, the government has no meaning. If we consider an example there was a massive cyclone in south India during the month of October 2014, the damage was so massive that there was a huge impact on the everyday life and the Government with all its machinery and Governing attributes in use could restore water, electricity and basic needs of its people within 8 days. Imagine this without the help of government, what a mess it would be?
	This type of situation cannot be handled by an individual and the control on every element lies on the Government which can be handled effectively by the Governing body.
	Finally to conclude the main aim of a Government is to safeguard its citizens in times of need and in times of perilous situation because Government works for the people and without them Government has no meaning to sustain and un-functional.
Essay 1174:
	It is believed that a government should be responsible for the safety of its residents during natural disasters such as tsunami or volcano eruption. I personally agree with the statement, and the following essay will discuss in details regarding the statement.
	To begin with, it is mandatory for the government to protect its people during the natural disaster. It is undeniable that the existence of the citizens has given significant contribution the development of a nation. Taxes that are collected from these people have been used to develop public facilities, expand new areas and funding public education. Without the existence of the residents, the country would have no support, no development and no fund.  
	From the humanity perspective, people are born and created as a social person, which means that people will interact, communicate and help each other. And during natural disasters such as typhoon, hurricane or earthquake, there will be a lot of people who found themselves in difficult conditions. They might have lost their family members and relatives, lost their properties and even some of them were injured condition. For the sake of humanity, the government should provide aids to their residents during these inconvenience events. They could provide emergency rescues, temporary accommodations and provide foods for their people. And once the disaster has passed, the government could help the residents by assisting them in rebuilding their homes.
	The government's responsibilities include broadcasting the forecast of any disaster and by improving the shelter system in natural disaster prone areas.
	In conclusion, I personally agree that the government must help its residents during any natural disaster since citizens have made contributions to the government through taxes. Besides that, I believed that from the humanity point of view, we should help and take care of each other.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1299-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-309-government-safety-laws-include-things-such-as-wearing-a-hard-hat-on-a-building-site",
Essay 1175:
	It is a fact that in many countries the government set some standards about safe workplaces, such as wearing some protection gears in the workplace. I personally support the idea of working in a safe condition and believe that this is an essential part of a healthy work environment, and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	To begin with, it is true that in certain countries, the government is concerned with a safe work environment. As injuries and accidents at work have been frequently reported, the government set some policies about safety at work, which covers so many aspects. One of the examples is that heavy industry companies should provide their workers with the appropriate safety equipment as the risk of being injured at work is high in this industry. In another example, drivers of special vehicles such as bulldozer or forklift must have a registered certificate or a special license, as driving these vehicles requires special techniques.
	If I have the authority to set some regulations about safety, I would set these kinds of policies. Firstly, every company should make a report about health, safe and green environment in their workplace. This report should be submitted to the authority on an annual basis, and companies who fail to submit their report on time will be charged with penalties. Secondly, there would be a regulation about safety audit. The government should set some audit teams, which will inspect companies’ safety environment during their work hour. Companies with unsatisfactory audit result must be reassessed during the renewal of their business licenses. By having these two policies, it is hoped that companies will implement a safe and healthy working environment in their workplace.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree that safety at work is an important thing, as many governments have set some specific rules about it. Should I be the authorised person, I would make some safety regulations which enforce companies to make a timely safety report, and conduct safety audits.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1298-advantages-disadvantages-of-living-in-house-compared-with-apartment",
Essay 1176:
	Everybody dreams to have a comfortable and beautiful place to live in with their family that they would like to call "home". In fact, home is not just a dream, it is our fundamental right. But when it comes to choosing what type of place to live in, many people like to live in a house while others prefer an apartment. In my opinion, there are both advantages and disadvantages to living in a house or apartment, and the choice depends on our preference and capacity.
	On the other hand, an apartment is a relatively modern accommodation arrangement for small families and are built by real state developers keeping modern facilities in mind. The customers can get everything readymade, sometimes even fully furnished rooms and kitchen. This eliminates the hassle of building a house and decorating it. The security and utility facilities are maintained by the building authority. However, an apartment owner has many restrictions, especially about how to renovate it, paint it, extent living areas or make more rooms. Besides, most flats have depreciation and not always a good investment.
	In conclusion, choosing a perfect place to live is in not just about advantages or drawbacks. Preference, modern amenities, return on investment and economic power are also related.
Essay 1177:
	Growing urbanisation has led to the lacking of space and thus a large number of people are opting to live in apartments. However, some people still prefer to live in a house. This essay explores the advantages and disadvantages of both these style of living before coming to a logical conclusion.
	Till a few decades back, living in individual houses was the most common norm. This was not only due to the fact that land was easily available but also due to the size of the family. The extended family lived and worked together. The house was generally accompanied by a large garden and ample space for the children to play. Even today, people living in houses prefer to do so because they value their privacy and need their own space. They also argue that they can build and design the house layout as per their convenience. However, living in a house comes with a high maintenance cost and extra effort.
	However, people living in an apartment does not have to spend much on maintenance. The maintenance is taken care of by society. There is a helpline number that you can call at any time of the day for any issue that you face. Besides, working parents also vouch for the safety of their children within such gated communities. The only discomfort faced by people living in apartments is the lack of privacy and space.
	The choice of living in a house or in an apartment depends on factors such as availability, rental costs and need and hence a particular style of living cannot be deemed to be the better than the other.
Essay 1178:
	Firstly, let us look at the pros and cons of the house. An independent house is always considered as a status symbol. This could be one of the reasons that the majority of the film stars own a house rather than a flat. Another advantage could be; a personalised space is gained by living in a house. You are the owner of the area so you can change it as per your convenience. However, personal space could be quite expensive. It is known that houses are more expensive than an apartment. At times a house might not be a safe place to live. For example, it is not surprising to read news about murder and robbery in the villas these days.
	Nevertheless, it is a fact that the apartment concept is widely accepted by society, so its benefits cannot be ignored. Though living in an apartment could be noisy sometimes, it is a safe place to live in. For instance, a thief would think twice before entering into a place where many people are living. Moreover, a security guard is easily affordable in an apartment compared to a house.
	An apartment could be a good option for people who like to socialise more. For example, a conversation started with a simple hello, turns into a long hour chat. You tend to meet different kinds of people so there are higher chances of finding alike minded people in apartments. In this global world, people stay away from their families because of work. However, a party organised by the apartments secretaries could make people feel like celebrating festivals with families.
Essay 1179:
	With the rapid population explosion, an increasing number of properties have been built in many bustling cities. However, a recent poll shows that people prefer dwelling in apartments than to living in houses. I also think that living in an apartment has more advantages though living in houses has some benefits as well.
	As for hunting an ideal vocation, living in an apartment near the commercial centre is the best choice. First, we are offered more choices on transportations and we can save time on commuting. Moreover, we don't need to worry about any housebreaking burglary when leaving for a certain time, since our apartments are protected by the management company. Furthermore, there are fewer cockroaches and mosquitoes if we live on higher floors.
	Nevertheless, people who tend to live in a house have a desire to enjoy the tranquillity. We are given more free space such as rooms, car parking, and garden. In the meantime, we can also invite friends to hold a big party without worrying that may bother the neighbours.
	However, when living in an apartment, it's hard for us to rent a parking spot. We need to pay parking fee monthly which costs a considerable amount of income. However, it's stressful for the middle-class family to buy a house since it's pricey.
	All in all, it depends on personal current situations to consider whether we should buy a house or an apartment, but in my opinion, I have to say the apartment is more suitable for people who live in a modern city.
Essay 1180:
	People have different opinions and choices about their living places, as some choose to live in a house while others prefer to live in an apartment. The following essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of living in a house compared to an apartment, but I believe that having a house has more benefits than drawbacks.
	For certain reasons, some people choose not to purchase a landed house. In common, houses have a larger space than a condominium or apartment, which means that it needs more time for the house owner to do the cleaning. As people get busier these days they have lesser time for cleaning activities, so they choose to live in an apartment. Secondly, there are more maintenance works to do for people who live in a cold area, especially during the winter season. For instance, it is mandatory for house owners to clear the pedestrian way which passes through their houses by shovelling the snow. This activity consumes a lot of time and energies, therefore people try to avoid it by living in a flat. Again owning a house increases many responsibilities which flat owners can mostly avoid. Finally, purchasing an apartment requires less money than building a decent house.
	Despite all of the disadvantages mentioned above, many people believe that having a house brings a lot of benefits for them rather than owning an apartment. Firstly, it is a fact that the price of a detached house increases rapidly than an apartment. It means that house owners could get a higher capital gain when they plan to sell the house. Secondly, the living cost of living in a house is lower than in an apartment as they do not have to pay the monthly maintenance fee. In certain countries, governments also differentiate the electricity and water rate between landed houses and apartments, as they believe that living in condominiums would be counted as a luxurious lifestyle. Lastly, a certain belief that it is safer to live in a landed house, especially when a natural disaster occurs. For example, it is riskier for people who live in a highrise building to survive than those who live in a detached house during an earthquake. Furthermore, an apartment building is owned by a housing estate company and many flat owners live there together. This reduces the freedom for apartment owners. On the contrary, a separate house owner enjoys full freedom and do not have to live with many other families in the same building.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that people have their own preferences and opinions about the type of properties that they would like to choose. Whichever the type of the property is, both have their own positive and negative aspects. I believe that the advantages of living in a house are greater than the disadvantages and I encourage people to save some money and purchase a house rather than planning to purchase an apartment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1297-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-307-women-should-be-allowed-to-join-the-army-the-navy-and-the-air-force-just-like-men",
Essay 1181:
	Since the dawn of the time, women have been playing a crucial role in the civilisation and development of mankind. It is clear that women can play a vital role in various defence forces so the writer of this statement thinks that they are a blessing for their country.
	To commence with, women will be a boon to the force. To be clear, the world has realised that women are equally capable as men in both mentally and physically abilities. As women are blessed with intellectual and cognitive skills, they can use these invaluable skills in the force. In addition to this, as we know, women are already serving in the various  other physically demanding job sectors  such as  white collar and blue collar worker. It is unwise to select them in this job sector. More importantly, women are naturally less aggressive and peace makers and these qualities are blessing for the force and once they come to leadership these helps to reduce conflict among the nations. Further, women are already part of the police department and they have proved that they are capable of doing adventures and riskier jobs. To cite an example, women leaders such as Queen Isabella, Victoria and the like ruled vast spectrum of power.
	On the other hand, women have some physiological barriers in joining the defence force. To make it clear, since women have to give birth to the child and nurture them, they need maternity leave for that. If women are in the force, it would be impossible for them to get leave at the time of war. Apart from that, many retrogressive people argue that women's primary function is to prepare food and look after children and husband so they should not opt to go for a job.
	To conclude, in this advanced era, women have been working in every realm and they have proved that they can contribute a lot to the society so they should take in defence force.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1296-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-306-a-painting-sculpture-or-other-art-forms-should-display-certain-qualities-that-are-unique",
Essay 1182:
	There has been a change in the expectation of every possible creature living on the Earth. Amongst them, there is also the presence of the lovers of Art. Since the past ten decades, there has been a shift in the preferences of the lovers of Art. It may, however, be also a possibility that there is a dearth of ‘True Lovers’ of the art in the current era. Whatever may be the case, it is the art which is always at the receiving end and has, to a large extent, lost its renowned charm.
	It is due to this change which has happened due to more materialistic needs that the population of art lovers and the quality of artworks has greatly declined. The direct, and unfortunate, effect of such a change has influenced the quality of artworks negatively.  Due to the paucity of art lovers and their genuine and matured followers, it has become a possibility for even a substandard piece of art to be categorised as a ‘masterpiece’, whereas the true works of arts remain a mute spectator. In a recent article published in the ‘Art and Culture’ section of a leading fortnight magazine, there has been a full article dedicated in memory of the maestro of artworks, the Late Mr. ABC. It was unfortunate to learn that the maestro had to spend his last few years in misery. This in spite of the fact, that the said maestro was a well-known international figure in the era of 1950s in the field of arts, particularly the painting.
	It can safely and with relevant evidence concluded that the kind of intellectual pieces in respect of arts which are labelled as masterpieces in the current era stands nowhere in comparison and contrast to the real masterpieces of art which were produced over the past hundred years.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1295-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-305-media-pay-too-much-attention-to-the-personal-lives-of-famous-people",
Essay 1183:
	Mass media play a significant role in our society as they elucidate a great deal of different information for people. The professional journalists work for various purposes to deliver the latest and the most sensational news about political, social and economic issues and of course the materials concerning entertainment in all its manifestation. In this essay, I would like to express my personal point of view upon this subject.
	First of all, I am fully agreed with the title of this essay and I consider it as the real challenge in modern society. People are using many contemporary gadgets these days which give them lots of opportunities to know the things inside out. But the most intriguing and absorbing themes for ordinary people are articles in gossip columns of many newspapers and glossy magazines about movie and pop stars, their glamorous way of living and scandals on their love affairs. Television contributes the problem too, as it shows too much of private and secret details of contemporary stars. The audience is disquiet over big money celebrities and other famous people earn, the clothes they wear, cars they drive and homes they live in and so on. Nowadays it is very popular to know many specific ins and outs of our favourite idols. In addition for many teenagers and young adults these public people are heroes and examples to follow. They admire and fall in love with celebrities, discuss their difficulties and try to get closer to them through the internet, people subscribe for the personal pages of singers, film stars, TV presenters, politicians and others in popular social networks.
	It seems to me that media should stop their attempts to conquer people via their powerful sources of information, obtrude the unnecessary ideas of getting involved too much into public people’s personal affairs and life. We must live our own life, thinking about our future without pretending to be someone else. There are a lot of other apparent examples in our life where media can be the far more useful source of knowledge, e.g. in education, science, medicine etc.
	To sum up I would like to state that modern media  make us addicted to the current trends and it is sometimes impossible to stay away from its oppressive influence. Nevertheless, it is up to us to make our own choice in everything that we watch, read, listen or dream about.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1294-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-304-is-freedom-of-speech-necessary-in-a-free-society",
Essay 1184:
	Freedom of speech is very important for a citizen to upgrade himself and society. Freedom is a key point to initiate development and bring people closer, start networking and move forward for a mission like the mission of change, the mission of independence etc.
	Freedom of speaking is necessary for anyone either he is 2 years old kid or 60 years old man. It gives people courage to communicate to make decisions and work on that. For Example Politician: they speak in public places to make the commitments and plans to develop the country. The audiences listen to them patiently, analyse their words and gives approval in the form of votes to win, so that he can get a chance to work on his promises and commitments.
	Furthermore, freedom is a fragrance of beautiful society. It makes you extrovert and nourishes you to achieve defined goal. Whereas this privileged is only limited to politicians these days. Those who are not politicians and if they speak something true about someone, they can be killed or murdered, if the opponent party is stronger than them. It also limits anyone to take decisions and forces you to think 100 times before speaking in a public place. Hence we become slaves in our own country.
	Therefore, I truly believe that citizen should have freedom to speak in favour or against of anyone. Facing the problems and keeping quite can bring disaster and put us in soup. Instead of giving up the problems we need to become unite and work together. Likewise, makes the hay when the sun shines.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1293-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-303-under-the-british-and-australian-laws-a-jury-in-a-criminal-case-has-no-access-to-information",
Essay 1185:
	It is believed, and rightly so, that a person learns from his past and makes his future bright by correcting the mistakes committed in the past. Due to this, a person should not be judged, as a whole, by his past deeds only. Due the weightage must be accorded to the present circumstances in which the person commits an act, which may either give a positive or a negative result.
	Different nations across the globe have a different set of rules in respect of criminal cases that come across the jury of such nation. The jury under the British and Australian laws has no access as regards the past criminal record of a defendant. This provides an edge to the defendant, as the jury comes to a decision in a vacuum. Moreover, in absence of previous criminal records the jury does not arrive at a decision due to any biasedness or pre-conceived notion about the character of the defendant. This situation, undoubtedly, favours the defendant.
	However, another school of thought believes that the jury must be aware of the past criminal records of the defendant. According to the believers of this school, an access to the past criminal records, actually provides a factual, realistic and reasonable platform to the jury to deliver their judgment. The past records, as a matter of fact, provides the insight into nature, character, upbringing, social level, mental health and numerous other factors of the defendant. With the help of these tools, it becomes easy and logical for the jury to read the subconscious mind of such defendant. Moreover, it also facilitates the jury to take a reasoned, well defined, appropriate, conscious, deliberate, judicious and prudent decision.
	As a matter of fact, in the recent case of a known gangster that made headlines in the criminal magazine, The ABC, it was only due to the knowledge of modus operandi of the said gangster in past records, that the jury overruled the theory of reasonable doubt that was illusioned by the advocate of the defendant.
	In short, in my opinion, the jury must be made aware of the past records to provide them the opportunity to have a full 360-degree view of the defendant, as a whole.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1292-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-302-assess-a-student-s-ability-based-on-their-performance-during-the-whole-course",
Essay 1186:
	In these advanced days, pupil's ability assessment is a tougher nut to crack. Examiners need to go the extra mile to select the right mode of assessment. Though some people prefer periodical assessment method for evaluation, my two cent is that a formal examination is an excellent tool for better assessment.
	One of the obvious reasons, it is a clear and objective method of assessment. In other words, formal examination method has widely accepted for it judicial and nonbiased nature. Moreover, it facilitates a proper assessment of students with accurate evidence. Over and above, it breaches the barriers of technical criteria of assessments such as grading. Hence, this method brings about less parental complaints about student assessments. The recent parental survey in Japan proves that the most accepted methods of parents is nothing other than formal examinations, is the best epitome.
	Another reason, the exam pressure helps the students to get on with their future hectic career. It is a gospel truth that the formal examination normally creates a good deal of internal pressure among students. This pressure equips the students to put in a stressful situation in their future career. If the students practice this kind of situations in their early life, it will pay the dividend in future. On top of that, this practice brings about a sea change in students personal life as well. They take an effective decision as easy as pie in stressful situations in their personal life. Many business executives reveal that their success formula of personal and professional life is nothing other than the ability to work under pressure situations, that achieved by their school life is the best example.
	Ironically, an army of people argues that an extra workload comes about on students at the exam time. Perhaps it may be true to some degree but, there is always a light at the end of the tunnel. The pupil will be beneficial in future by these slightly vigorous practices in their school period.
	Put it in a nutshell, the formal examination is prejudice free and not a rocket science for students and their parents. In addition to that, if they go by formal exam process in their school hood, the students become an extra talented in future. If we separate these kinds of valuable techniques in other fields of life, we can see the magic touch of individual in many areas of life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1291-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-301-professional-athletes-make-good-role-models-for-young-people",
Essay 1187:
	Each person has one or many role models in his or her life. They prefer to imitate style, method of life and skills from their role models. Professional athletes are also good role models for the people who prefer to watch sports or engage in similar sports activity. People, who have good athletic skills, showcase their talents. They will accept both success and failure in the same manner. This is a very good lesson learnt from professional athletes. People who think athletes as their role model, they will try to imitate that behaviour in their life.
	Athletes are playing a major role in influencing in other’s life. The example of attending to practice, time management, continuous practice, self-confidence and many more behaviours are learnt by many youngers. This is influencing in both male and female youngsters.
	At the same time, professional athletes are not the only group of people act as good role models. Good artists, good social workers, teachers, medical staff, government servants also act as good role models in youngers’ life. According to the preferences of youngers, role models also differ. Such as Youngers like to watch more films than sports, then, an actor or actress would be a role model for them. If they prefer to involve in social service, previous leaders on social service would be their role models, examples of Mother Theresa. Likewise, role models are not only from the field of athletes but also from vast numbers of other fields.       
	Anyhow, as per my own opinion, I agree with the statement, ‘some people think that professional athletes make good role models for young people while other fields of professionals also make good role models for young people.
Essay 1188:
	As we know sports are very important in day to day life. Youngsters get more attraction towards sports and try to play the same as professional athletes. They copy them in various means like playing style, looking, hair style, speaking, body language etc.
	Interviews from professional athletes play an important role for all of their fans as they implement their tips and advice in their play strategies, which gives them guidance and path in becoming successful. Likewise, they learn team building, teamwork, individual effort and people management skills in their life.
	Yet in the response of above, we see some professional athletes involve in advertisement, movie making and promoting brands, which is basically a way to earn more money for them but it gives wrong lessons to their viewers and fans. Young people think, to be good looking, is also a part to become a successful athlete and somehow, they get distraction from their career path. Hence, many good athletes remain unsuccessful in their career path and usually switch to another domain when they face failure. Followers should understand everyone has one or other merit in himself and different style to do any work, also to be true to their work only can make them successful in their life; for Example: Mahendra Dhoni is a famous athlete and famous for his batting style and long hair style, but he is also a dedicated person towards his work which helped him to climb the success ladder.
	Therefore, I truly believe if something comes to lesson giving to the viewers and fans, successful people like celebrities should not give wrong lessons. They should always boost up their viewers and come up with different ideas which can help them to lead their life in the right path. Distracting youngsters in their career building age can bring serious issues for country's development and put everyone in soup.
Essay 1189:
	Professional sportsmen and women are and have always been inspirational idols in young people’s life. In my opinion, youngsters take examples from them and attempt to become successful forthcoming people of the same type. The young generation also mimics the styles and fashions of their favourite sports person. I believe that the professional athletes can be exemplary figures for the young generation.  
	Their persistence and perseverance are an incentive for young people. Because when children observe some people around them that attain big successes they get thrilled and fall in the desire of such resounding targets. No one can perceive this emotional reaction as a bad thing. In sequence as children get older, they carry these targets with them and also they boost ambitions by seeing other achievements of inspiring people. In addition, they proceed their educational period with these ambitions.
	One of the positive aspects of professional athletes' influence is that they do not only be an insight and incentive for those who wish to become a sportsperson but also they exhibit massive successes on account of at least that big efforts and hard working for other children who intend to be successful engineers, doctors or business people. Athletes are also good examples for children who are not in good condition and environment. These athletes such as Usain Bolt, Muhammed Ali and others teach to tolerate hardships and learn from those. Most successful sports people come from poverty and show their abilities that if they wish to achieve and work hard they can reach their target.
	To sum up, professional and successful sports people constitute a large part of children's inspirations and their perseverance and hard work help their little admirers to try and take initiatives to become like them.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1290-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-300-an-increasing-number-of-people-work-from-home-these-days",
Essay 1190:
	Nowadays, thanks to development in the cyber-space, some people are able to do their job from home. This method can be useful in some aspects. I think they can save not only their money but they can raise their safety and improve their family relationships too.
	Obviously, this types of careers are far economical than working in the office. Paying for public transportation tickets or private vehicle gas, people have to spend several hundreds of dollars each month to commute between their home and workplace; however, those working from home do not spend this money and can save it. For example, my brother, who works for a mobile company in Australia, has to pay almost $300 per month to travel from his apartment to his workplace located in downtown, while he would not pay it when his employer permitted him to work from home, and he would save over $3500 annually.
	Another reason is that this method is far safer than the working in the office. Had not many electronic engineers had to travel between their home and the company they are working, they would not have been injured or even died because of road accidents. Many of them have to use their private car to reach their destination, and unfortunately, because of sudden car accidents, their lives have been jeopardised.
	Lastly, this method can improve family relationships. Clearly, this group of employees usually stay longer hours a day in their house and are definitely a longer time in contact with their spouse or children than the ones working in the outside home. In this way, a friend of mine who his office is a room inside of his house can have closer communication with his children because he can monitor his children's activities, including their study or playing, and he is more familiar with his wife's personality than a similar personnel who have to work more than eight hours a day in his workplace.
	In conclusion, those working from home can gain more advantages than the ones working from the office. I believe that the former usually spend less money for their transportation, are harmed less by car accidents and have more mutual relations with their family members. It is a perfect plan if governments popularise this type of jobs fundamentally.
Essay 1191:
	Technology is an inevitable part in our life, expecially, in the current scenario. One cannot think of a situation where technology is absent . As a matter of fact, technology is that ‘moral fabric’ which binds the humans together.
	Due to the technological advancement/development, there have been instances where the human race has benefitted and also has been at the receiving end. One of the technologies which have cut across all the ages of mankind is the Computer Technology. The concept of ‘work from home’, ‘flexible timing’ are nothing but the by-products of this ever changing, revolutionary but useful technology. ‘Work from home’ and ‘Flexible timings’ situations provide the people (read employees) to balance their office as well as personal work. Furthermore, with the help of computer technology, the employees are also able to be in constant touch with their office, from the comfort of their homes.
	This not only increases the productivity of the employees but also enhances their belongingness and commitment towards their organisation. However, due to computer technology, the employees are approachable throughout the day and sometimes even during odd hours. This may, though not quite often, lead to the breach of privacy, which ultimately results in low productivity by the employee. However, much depends on the environment and mental attitude of the employee. As the same boiling water which hardens the egg also softens the potato, similarly, there are different effects of this computer technology on different employees. A recent case, which was published in the last week edition of a well-known newspaper, had been an eye-opener for working professionals who, though, work from home but stay in touch with their employer due to this computer technology.
	Due to the work pressure of year closing an employee, who used to work from home over his laptop, of XUA Company didn’t have ample rest for a week. As a result of this, the employee had to pay for his life due to the accident which occurred while driving his family for a late night movie.
Essay 1192:
	Nowadays, there are more people who work from home and get connected to their workplace using the internet technology. The trend brings benefits for both employees and employers, and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	It is a fact that with the existence of internet technology and portable computer, employees could get connected to their office's server and can do their tasks.  As they have connected to their company's network, they could read and reply some emails or enter the office's working program. Besides that, they could communicate with their colleagues using chatting facilities such as Skype or instant messenger; therefore they are updated with the latest information in the office.  
	It is obvious that this advance technology brings mutual benefits for both workers and companies. The advantage for employees is that, when they could not go to the workplace due to some unexpected events, they could still be productive by working from their home. From the employer's point of view, the existence of this technology has been positively affected to their cost. Many companies hire employees to work from their home, as it reduces the space rental fee and saves the electricity cost as well. Besides that, these companies do not have to provide transportation allowance as well for their employees.
	In conclusion, it is true the trend of people working from home using online technology is increasing these days. They could connect to their office's network and do their tasks from home. This development brings advantages for both the worker and the company; as it reduces the idle time of the worker, and save the company's expenses.
Essay 1193:
	As the use of the internet is becoming relevant and faster these days, many companies have sorted to let their employees work at home and stay in communication with their office. This set-up has huge positive effects on the employers and employees as it saves a lot of time and money in the long run. This practice is becoming popular in many modern companies which are using computers to run their projects.
	Working at home can save time as the employees do not need to travel long hours just to get to the office. This is a big advantage, especially if the company is far from home or if the company is based overseas. For example; people working in construction, medical transcriptionists, language tutorials and call centres can just submit their works through different internet based sites such as; Dropbox, Hightail, Yousendit and etc. As a result, a great amount of time is saved in the process.
	On the other hand, working off-shores can also save money since companies do not have to rent big offices and they can minimise the use of electricity, water and other important resources in running a business. They just need to invest in high-tech servers which in the end will be a great asset. These servers can also be accessed remotely by IT managers anytime that they want.
	As a conclusion, computer technology has a great importance and has big effects to save time and money if companies know how to take advantage of it. By offering off-shore works, companies and employees can now work hand in hand for having a productive environment while having close communications, and at the same time will add to company’s growth and success to this computer era.
Essay 1194:
	Thanks for technological advancements - Information Technology and modern electronic gadgets facilitate to perform several jobs at home settings. These advancements immensely help to the employees in various ways. The life changing concept 'work at home' gives various economic and personal allowances to workers and assist them to makes their life a festival.
	Firstly, work from home tremendously reduces the transportation cost of employees to and from the office settings. To be more precise, travelling expenses, that is a big burden for many employees, can be significantly reduced by online work. Besides, this money can be mobilised to some other purposes which make the life a cake walk. Recent statistical department's survey reveals that the people work from home settings can be saved extra 35% from their salary by avoiding transportation expenses.
	Secondly, employed parents get ample times to look after their children at home. In another word, the upbringing of the children, which is always considered as a tough nut to crack, is easing by this new work culture. In addition, employees get plenty of times to spend with their children which is necessary for children's overall development. Recent WHO report indicates that the parents work from home are more successful to fulfil their children's needs than parents work at office settings.
	To sum-up, work from home concept and trend positively affect all class of workers in many ways. They get not only financial benefits but also get a good amount of time with their family. These new work-cultures is really a boon for many people especially for employed parents in several ways.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1289-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-299-public-transport-is-the-best-way-to-solve-traffic-problems-in-cities",
Essay 1195:
	Traffic congestion has already become a major social problem not only in developed cities but also in third world countries, especially in urban areas. It is a tough nut to crack for many nations. Though many ideas are rising from the different corners of the world, my two cents is that the encouraging people to use public transport is an effective solution.
	Firstly, use of public transportations will help to bring down the number of private vehicles on the road in cities. It is a gospel truth that, if private vehicles such as motorcycles and cars get decreased on roads, the traffic congestion will significantly decline. Moreover, it brings about a sea of changes in traffic culture by avoiding road rage, which is another cause of traffic jam in many cities. So, promotion of common transports keeps the roads  free and city travel becomes a piece of cake. According to the recent survey of Volvo company, in New York city, the traffic congestion is significantly down than any other cities in the USA because of excellent public transport system usage of public, is the best epitome.
	Secondly, public vehicles such as buses and trams can slow down the movement on the road. To be more precise, the slow movement of vehicles pays an extra dividend to bring down traffic congestion in cities. Moreover, avoiding unnecessary overtaking and similar driving activities come about by use of common traffic vehicles. Hence, the traffic jam can bring down in a great deal. Exclusive areas of buses and trams in cities have been experiencing less traffic congestion is the best epitome of it.
	However, an army of people argues that the public transport system increases the travelling time and give cold comfort to commuters. Perhaps it may be true to some degree but, it cannot be denied that the vehicle speed down is an effective solution for smooth and traffic jam free city travel.
	To crown it all, encouraging the public to get along with the common transport system is the best option to bring down city traffic clogging. Buses and trams create less traffic jam by its slow-moving nature. If the public goes by public transport system settings, it breaks the city traffic jam deadlock in a smoother way.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1288-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-298-it-is-very-hard-for-the-teachers-to-give-every-student-individual-attention",
Essay 1196:
	Nowadays, in some educational institutions, each pupil cannot be given enough opportunity to learn study materials mostly because teachers cannot pay attention to every single student in a large classroom. This may negatively influence their study performance, and I believe that several empiric solutions, including establishing more schools, enrolling more teachers, encouraging students to participate in team works, online courses or using of novel electronic methods, can phenomenally be useful.
	To begin with, in these classes, students must be motivated to be involved in group practising. Clearly, instructors teaching in a vast area cannot focus on each applicant; however, dividing all students into five to ten pupils in each group can assist them to become more active in their study, raising the quality of teaching generally. As a prime example, in Math classes, some students may loose huge information because their seats are in the last rows in the class and cannot understand the meaning of questions or answers as much as those sitting closer to the teacher. Had they been separated into several groups, each member would have had different abilities to come up with solutions for difficult types of mathematic lessons.
	Again, if the population in a country is high, the need for more educational institutions is a must. Therefore the authorities should build more school and classrooms and enrol more teachers to address this issue.
	Another positive impact is the use of online courses. Admittedly, in some curriculums, educators can teach lessons through the web, and it is not mandatory scholars participate in live lectures. For instance, literature is a kind of study material which trainees can study the related subjects through the Internet because they can easily access vocabulary, grammar or given samples on the screen of a computer. As a result, education authorities will have more fortunes to divide more important lessons into smaller classes. The school authority should encourage both teachers and students to take advantages or modern technologies like projectors, sound systems, the internet and this will help to address the issue. For instance, if a teacher updates his blog with his lectures, students who had difficulty understanding it could easily study it from home. Some new digital methods can be used.  Not surprisingly, developing of technology, students can have a better intake of study materials. In particular, in MIT University, a well-known North American university, students have their own video screens in their seat, enabling them to see and hear their teacher’s quotes from near. The tutor can find each pupil on a huge screen installed on the wall.
	Furthermore, the concept of teaching assistance from a classroom should be adopted by the authority. Each class can have 2-3 teaching assistant who would be nominated and rewarded by the school authority so that they regularly discuss all the students and forward their queries to the teachers. This would reduce the problem to a great extent.
	In conclusion, now some students have to study their courses in highly populated classes, reducing their study performance. From my perspective, authorities can address this problem by implementing several practical solutions, including group studying, offering some lessons from a distance or using the latest modern visual system for a better teaching while the government can address this problem by establishing more schools and by enrolling more qualified teachers.
Essay 1197:
	Undeniably, it has rarely become possible that tutors have enough supervision on each pupil in institutes with roomy classes. This can negatively influence students’ educational performance, and to tackle this issue, I personally believe that school authorities must implement some practical solutions, including raising the educational budget, using the latest versions of learning methods and changing the designs of seats in these classes.
	To start with, one pivotal solution is that the needed educational funds must be provided. Definitely, by having a higher financial backup, not only more instructors will be hired, but a fewer numbers of students will be involved in teaching in each classroom. As a prime example, instead of participation of over one hundred applicants in each classroom in UBC University, a very popular university in Canada, consideration of more money for hiring of more employees will help educators to teach less than fifty people instead of over hundred ones, and the overall quality of teaching will be improved phenomenally.
	Another important method is the usage of modern teaching systems in these classes. Obviously, using some technical facilities will lead all trainees to understand better the study subjects taught by their teacher. In particular, showing pictures or videos on a large screen is to become a common method in many lecture rooms, and instead of using a whiteboard, which could only be seen by less than half of the total students, for all participants, a more clear and accurate image can be shown. Therefore, educators can explain more deeply the study materials to each student.
	Lastly, the next approach is the modification in designing of seats. Admittedly, had chairs been installed in a circle in these classes, the instructor would have a better control on each person; however, unfortunately, students’ seats are used to be designed in rows, and those sitting on the rear lines cannot be supervised by their teacher in a perfect way.
	In brief, in roomy classes, all scholars cannot be taught appropriately. In my view, school authorities should implement several empiric methods to come up with this problem. In my view, this can be booming the budget for registration of more teachers, applying novel teaching systems and changing the seats in a correct way in these classes. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1287-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-297-a-government-s-role-is-only-to-provide-defence-capability-and-urban-infrastructure",
Essay 1198:
	Nowadays, the responsibilities of the government are being debated quite a lot by the people and human rights activists. The state role should only be limited, restricted and confined to few sectors or it should cover every aspect of their citizens and residents’ well-being is a topic of great debate. It has been argued that the government should only be accountable for developing country’s military capabilities and infrastructure enhancement or it should be responsible for other important facilities i.e. education, medical, social protection as well. I strongly believe that all the aspects of life associated with state citizens should be directly undertaken, developed, maintained and operated by the state authorities. This argument will be proven by taking into account availability of resources with government and monopoly by private entities and individuals.
	Firstly, the funds and financing available by the state is substantially high giving them the cushion to allocated funds and projects for every sector according to its requirements. For instance, the state collects the tax from its citizens on the reason and commitment that the taxpayer’s money will again be spent by utilising on the development and improvement of the infrastructure, healthcare, transportation system etc. On the contrary if it refuses to oblige and falls back on the commitment of spending money on public it could result in reduction in popularity and tax collection. The example shows clearly that the government has the money available in its pool which could be wisely spent for every department and sector. This is evident from the above discussion that budgetary allocation should be done to all public sectors for facilitating general public.
	Secondly, depending on private companies and personnel to establish such important divisions i.e. medical, education etc. can create a monopoly and result in deprivation of these facilities for underprivileged people. For instance, the private owner will develop any of the hospitals for commercial purposes and the poor people won’t be able to afford that treatment. This example illustrates that the private people should not be given the sole responsibility to manage these core sectors. Thus, it can be seen that giving individual companies this major role could sabotage the lives of underserved people of the society.
	In a nutshell, the resources present with the state and cartel thinking of individuals should be kept in mind by the state authorities for developing or upgrading country. I do believe that the state should be completely responsible for building the basic necessities concerning their citizen life and health. I suppose, going another way round could complicate the problems for sitting government as private individuals could be involved in blackmailing in case their demands are not met.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1224-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-296-school-newspaper-should-be-given-absolute-free-speech-with-no-censorship",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1223-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-295-advantage-and-disadvantage-of-giving-international-aids-to-poor-countries",
Essay 1199:
	Over recent decades, many international institutes have been established all around the world with the objective of supporting the low-income communities. However, there are some various points of view about positive or negative results of the philosophy of such help. In this essay, it is going to be assessed the merits and demerits of conducting poor countries internationally.
	As the outstanding effect on low-level nations thanks to being sported by other countries, is that the rate of death resulting from malnutrition decrease. In addition, the health of the countries could improve because of supporting drugs and medical facilities. For instance, it is heard on the news that in some African countries, many people do not have even anything to eat and/or any initial health facilities.
	On the other hand, some individuals take issue with the idea that these helps contribute to some side effects. By the way of illustration, it could weaken the countries receiving aids and causes those to not to attempt for improving their situation. Moreover, it might transform them into consumer communities which always need other countries supports to being alive. Additionally, receiving external aids could lead those countries to the level that they pay no heed to their own natural resources.
	In conclusion, even though we could not disregard the fact that some poor countries widely need to be supported, the advanced societies could adopt the decisions that help those countries to positively change their environment by utilising their own existing abilities and resources.
Essay 1200:
	There are many poor countries in this world and they are mostly located in the African and Asian regions, such as Liberia, Zimbabwe, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Sudan. It is a fact most of these countries are depending on the supports of the developed countries. These international aids have their own benefits and drawbacks, and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	To begin with, giving supports to third world countries bring some advantages for both the giver and the recipient countries. It gives benefits for countries that could give international aids, as they have the opportunity show their kindness to other countries. Showing these positive attitudes could change the world into a better place and improve the world peace. As for the recipient countries, the help would positively affect the social economic conditions of their people. For instance, these financial supports could be used to purchase some foods for the starving residents.
	On the other hand, despite the positive things of international supports, there are some negative things that arose as well. Firstly, these supports have made the recipient countries people become lazy and spoil. As they realise that they will be supported from developed and developing countries, they do not want to have changes and improvements in their lives. Secondly, many of the support funds are not strictly and properly monitored. As a result, most of the funds are being corrupted by local authorities.
	In conclusion, providing international aids to third world countries has its own advantages and disadvantages. In my opinion, as a social creature, people should help each other, though we might come from different races, ethnics or languages. Therefore, it is essential for advanced countries to help poor nations, but the support should be strictly monitored to ensure that the funds are allocated properly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1222-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-294-young-drivers-complete-a-safe-driving-education-course",
Essay 1201:
	Nowadays, traffic accidents have become a menace to many countries. Some governments urge that all young drivers must be trained before a driving license is issued to them. For several reasons, I completely agree that all young drivers must attend a driving education course in order to reduce traffic accidents and traffic jams.
	It is widely admitted that most of the traffic accidents are caused by untrained drivers. For example, in my country, most of the drivers do not know how to drive well because they lack the knowledge of driving. Consequently, a lot of traffic accidents occur on a periodic basis. Therefore, it is the government’s sole responsibility to train those drivers in order to prevent such accidents.
	There is another reason why young drivers must complete a driving education course. It is taken for granted that traffic jams are, to some extent, caused by the untrained young drivers. For example, my friend did not attend a driving education course. He always causes traffic jams because he never knows the rules of a good driving.  Therefore, he mustn’t drive unless he is taught and trained properly.
	The statistics show that the numbers of accidents occur on the road are mostly due to the lack of proper driving training, reckless driving and violation of traffic rules. With proper training, the young drivers can be turned into cautious drivers and that would help them drive safely. This will, in turn, reduce the road accident.
	To sum up, the officials mustn’t issue a driving license unless the driver is fully aware of the rules of driving. Doing so, we can avoid traffic accidents and traffic jams at large.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1220-happiness-is-considered-very-important-in-life",
Essay 1202:
	Everybody desires to be happy in life and interestingly the requirements to be cheerful vary from person to person. This is the main reason why defining happiness is not that easy. However, there are some common things that are regarded important to be delighted in life.   
	Defining happiness is quite challenging because the requirements to achieve it is not fixed. While someone dreams that his economic freedom would make him happy, a very rich man dreams about having a caring family to be happy. Similarly, a couple who do not have any child think about having a baby all the time and would be ready to do anything for that. On the contrary, many poor families, mostly in poor countries, find more children to be their burden. The practical world is quite puzzling and the humankind wants more than they have. When a person’s aim or expectation is fulfilled, he wants more and this is a never ending process. This is why happiness is not a simple word that we can describe with a neat and precise definition.
	However, there are some vital factors that are commonly regarded as the main ingredients to be happy in life. First of all, physical and psychological soundness is very important to be happy and people can truly realise that when they get sick. Economic freedom - ability to fulfil the needs in life, is the second most important factor to be happy, in my opinion. It is often said that being happy with an empty stomach is not possible. Thirdly, having a happy family where members love each other and care for them is considered important to be in peace in life. It is usually rare to find a happy person who does not have a pleasant family. Individual freedom is also considered a great influence to be happy in life. Someone without personal freedom cannot feel the happiness. Most importantly, being contented in life is the key to being happy. If someone can be contented with whatever little he has, he will be happy in life.
	In conclusion, though there is no easy and precise definition of happiness, common attributes like sound health, caring family, freedom and personal contentment are regarded to be key ingredients to be happy in life.
Essay 1203:
	It is true that happiness is a prerequisite to people’s quality of life, although an actual definition of happiness seems to be difficult to describe, there are various factors which considered being crucial in acquiring happiness.
	It is quite laborious to find out an actual definition for the term HAPPINESS. The reason for this is that happiness means different thing to different people. Most people may have at least one hobby or a treat which could help them to uplift their spirits instantly. While for some people, it might be their job or a career which brings them a sense of fulfilment. At the same time, for others, personal belongings are paramount of a serene life. To take an example of a web designer, Richard Jackson, who believes that the key element for a pleasurable life is a close relationship. In my case, happiness is when I am taking my time out of a hectic routine to spend a quality time along with my family.
	There do seem to be some common needs that we all share in regards to experiencing or achieving pleasure. Firstly, investing in personal relationships can give a broad (long) way to boost up people’s level of happiness. For instance, spending even a fraction of time from a whole day with your children while doing some share activities could help to build up an immense mutual understanding as well as an inner satisfaction in them, which is a subtle precursor to bring in levelled happiness. Secondly, a prestigious line of work could help to raise people’s contentment by allowing them to have ample amount of wages. As a result, they can entertain themselves with all the basic necessities of life without worrying about any financial distress.
	To sum up, due to a nature of happiness it is not that easy to describe it in one specific sentence. We can merely acknowledge several factors which are mandatory to some extent in seeking happiness.
Essay 1204:
	Happiness is an indispensable emotional factor that we usually pursue in our everyday life. In terms of delineating happiness, it would be intractable, as the meaning varies from person to person. However, apparently, there are several contributing factors of happiness, by which people may incur exalted satisfactions and psychological forbearances.
	First of all, happiness may tend to have a definition that varies from several opinions of scholars. Though, I believe it is a simplest need of human being, which could be incurred from any living or material substance. Some people search out pleasure from their wealth, material possessions and social hierarchies while others believe that happiness is a treasure, which could be only possessed from companionship. For example, a supportive and caring family provides someone an utmost happiness and peace that could not be achieved by the lonely one. Additionally, other people may conquer this positive emotion by owning a mansion or driving an expensive car or having high social status.
	Apparently, there are several points that play an essential role to grab a happy and delightful life. Firstly, I assume that money could be the most eminent resource that may bring the smile to anyone’s face. Secondly, some happiness could not be traded-off with high salaries such as, having loving families or raise a child to be a good citizen or holding a top position at school or colleges.
	To conclude, happiness is a foremost essential part of our lives and we delineate this emotion by linking it with our surrounding environment and various stimulating factors.
Essay 1205:
	People were always in search of happiness since ancient times and still many of us are trying to find it throughout the whole life. But happiness differs from person to person and it can’t be explained in one word. That’s why it is always difficult to determine its controversial and deep essence.
	There are many reasons to think that full happiness is impossible to achieve and moreover it is non-existent in reality. But it is not true and I strongly believe that people underestimate the value of everyday happiness they have living their lives. Standards of being happy in many cultures and countries are quite diverse. For instance, in Asian cultures, the main factors which influence the felicity of its peoples are a big family, care and respect for elders, following the traditions of their ancestors, religion and  harmony with nature and others, material things are less important.
	As for western civilisation, the situation is quite different and essential factors in happiness attainment are rather material than spiritual. According to many investigations in this sphere, Europeans are very concerned about money, high social status in society, good job and education. They spend all their lives in pursuit of financial success and material boons are very significant for them. The majorities start their families and have children in their early thirties after having done some progress in the career field. As it can be seen the criteria of happiness are rather wide and varied for millions of people, but nevertheless many things are very similar. All of us would like to be happy in many ways in this life: to be healthy and wealthy, have a family and children, be successful in career, have good friends and live a long and interesting life. It seems to me that main factors in gaining happiness are support from your family and friends, harmony with yourself and surrounding world, good health and so on.
	To conclude I would like to say that we are happy only by one great reason, that is our birth into this beautiful and wonderful world, full of many opportunities and chances to believe in happiness.
Essay 1206:
	WHO defines health as ‘Physical, social and mental well-being’. It is a common misconception that absence of physical ailments makes us healthy and undermining the importance of mental and psychological aspects of health. Happiness broadly relates to the psychological well-being of an individual.
	Happiness though very important part of life, unfortunately, it is a relative term and poorly defined. It is also different for an individual. It may change from time to time.  For example, achieving a set financial goal makes a person happy, bur this may not be the same for other. For, a kid, a new toy makes him happy. Enjoying with friends, going on a vacation, clearing examination, new job, marriage, childbirth are some other examples of happiness at different stages of life. Thus every person defines happiness to his character and liking.
	There are many ways to achieve happiness. According to me, happiness is finding “Inner peace”. Regular physical exercises can help to gain happiness. This not only improves fitness but also gives a sense of well-being. Practising yoga and meditation will keep your soul satisfied and calm.
	Avoidance of addictions such as alcohol, cigarette, and other psychotropic drug are required for leading a happy life. Someone has quoted:” If you play with your brain, the brain will play with you.” these addictions make the person vulnerable to various diseases such as liver cirrhosis, lungs diseases and increases sufferings both physically and economically.
	Accepting the negative phases of life and searching happiness in every moment would be the best strategy to remain happy. Mingling with friends, sharing joy and worries would be another best way to reduce pain and increase happiness. I believe, even if the happiness is a relative term, the path of achieving it is common for all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1217-teaching-children-at-home-is-best-for-a-child-s-development",
Essay 1207:
	Education is the fundamental building block for children’s development. However, the growth of students is very much dependent on the way of coaching. Some prefer educating students at home while others think it is necessary for children to attend schools. In this essay, I will analyse both viewpoints before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	There are groups of people who consider homeschooling has many benefits for child’s growth. For instance, a student studying at home can get personal attention from parents which result in good academic results. Furthermore, parents are aware of their child’s weakness and can help him to cope with difficulties. Thus, it can be said that children can learn their subjects at the pace in which they are comfortable and this can help them to excel in studies. 
	On the other hand, many consider schools as the required element in student growth. Educational institutions, for example, concentrate on teaching moral values like tolerance and sharing along with studies. Moreover, they are encouraged to perform tasks in a team, enabling them to learn teamwork and not to dishearten by failure. Therefore, chances of suffering from depression are reduced to a greater extent in case he doesn’t get what he desired in the real world. 
	From above, it can be seen that both the viewpoints have their own merits. However, I tend to believe that in order to sustain in the actual world, students should be motivated to get educated in institutions rather than learning alone at home. It is thus hoped that the government will enforce strict laws for attendance in school compulsory.
Essay 1208:
	Homeschooling method of educating children is a trend still followed by a diverse variety of groups all over the world. The concept dates back as far as the times when actual schools, for teachings group of attendees, didn't exist. The method originated in royal environments where kings would appoint the wisest pupil in their cabinets to carry out teaching sessions with kids in the house. However, this practice of in-house education began to diminish when public education institutes came to the fore.
	Benefits of homeschooling cannot be overlooked. The biggest advantage for children who are learning at home is the individual attention the tutor can provide to them. This not only results in clear delivery of knowledge to the student, but the pace of such can also be set, maintained and adjusted as per needs of the student and requirements of the course. Recipient of home tuition can enjoy a flexible schedule as deemed fit by the involved parties. This time selection option can be a great tool to tune up the process of learning. Some children find it easier to study at night while others prefer to do the same in the daytime. A one-on-one session between a student being taught at home by his teacher establishes a social bond between them. This leads to an increased level of interactivity which contributes assertively in the learning curve.
	On the contrary, participants of group schools acquire some distinct advantages primarily due to the system they get involved in. First and foremost would be societal structure. Human is a social being and there is no place better than a public or private school where children learn how to interact with others. Another social property which the students pick up in group schooling system is competition. They learn how to survive together and how to get ahead of other. A healthy competition amongst students teaches them the value of effort. Group schooling systems make the arrangement of specialized practical equipment feasible, which would ultimately enhance the learning experience of all the students.
	In my opinion, group schooling systems were made a global standard for a reason and not the homeschooling. Public schools provide balance in society on a large scale. Children with the uniform set of educational skills aligned towards a common goal can grow up to be more useful for the world, rather than each child moving in a different direction.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1216-how-realistic-is-the-expectation-of-job-satisfaction-for-all-workers",
Essay 1209:
	Since most adults dedicate a significant amount of time at their workplace, job satisfaction is crucially important to the happiness of an individual. I believe that salaries, working environment and career enhancement opportunity are the key determinants to job satisfaction. However, with different occupations, expectations may still vary, and I think that satisfaction with jobs remains a distant dream for the majority of employees.
	To begin with, job satisfaction depends on several fitting reasons, like salaries, working environment and development prospects, for example. Firstly, wages play a predominant role in affecting job content. In simple words, money helps employees attain their basic needs. Besides, it is deemed a symbol of accomplishment as higher salaries reflect a higher degree of contribution to the organization. Secondly, the working environment also plays a crucial role in influencing job contentment. That is to say that employees need an atmosphere which is safe and healthy, and which caters to both personal comforts and is conducive to doing a good job. Last but not least, the potential for career advancement is another factor in a delightful career. This is because employees regard promotion as the ultimate achievement and when they get a promotion, they feel absolutely satisfied.
	However, it is quite impossible for all employees to be completely satisfied with their job and workplace. In fact, a high-paid job exerts an enormous amount of stress. An employee who comes under pressure to work longer hours will not be satisfied with the profession, whereas a flexible job that entertains executives’ passion likely has low salaries. It appears that human nature is the formidable challenge for employees to find satisfaction in their occupations.
	In conclusion, salaries, stimulating working environment and promotional chance are the major sources of job satisfaction but human traits are actually a great hindrance to working delight and job satisfaction for all is not possible.
Essay 1210:
	Since the majority of adults spend a considerable amount of their time at work, job satisfaction has become instrumental in the well-being of an individual. This essay will first discuss what elements contribute to job satisfaction, and it will then address the question of how likely it is that everyone will be happy with their jobs.
	The two most important things that lead to someone being satisfied at work are being treated with respect by managers and being compensated fairly. If those who are senior to individual respect them as a person and value their contribution at work then this will elate the person and make them feel valued. Fair compensation is also an important consideration because feeling underpaid can cause people to resent their bosses or look for another job. According to a recent survey by online job search website Monster.com, these two factors came on top where almost 80% agree that they would stick to their respective job roles if valued by managers and offered fair remuneration.
	With regards to the second question, it is unlikely that all workers can experience content with their career. The majority of people fail to reach their goal and as a result, end up taking a post they really do not care about in return for a salary. The money earned is just enough to pay their living expenses which often means they go through periods of discontentment. For example, a poll conducted by the Guardian.com states that 70% of the people would leave their current job if it were not for the money.
	To conclude, being content with one’s career can have a profound impact on a person's well-being, and being paid fairly can maximise their sense of self-worth; however, job satisfaction for all workers is an unrealistic hope.
Essay 1211:
	Job satisfaction is believed to be an important aspect of one’s self-satisfaction and a happy life. To be satisfied with a job, many expectations need to be fulfilled and it is a matter of debate whether a job satisfaction exists or not.
	So how do we define job satisfaction and which elements are essential for an agreeable job? Firstly, an individual should choose a job that matches his skill set and where he could find mental satisfaction. A job that provides a sense of fulfilment, secure working environment and pays well is a desired job for many. Traditionally, a job that has a social status, better pay scale and gives freedom to an employee is said to be a dream job. Unfortunately, not all of us have such dream jobs. Some other important factors like adequate holidays,  compensations, learning opportunity, career growth, a decent boss, nice colleagues, job security and fair working environment are often considered the most important aspects of a job. I believe a nice job should guarantee progress - both skills and remuneration. For example, training courses that help employee gain new skills would help improve his career and therefore benefit his workplace and his community as well.
	Since job satisfaction and expectation of employee change with time, it is almost unrealistic to define a job which is perfect and completely satisfactory for all. While some people are unsatisfied with their jobs because of poor payment, others complain about the future prospect. Even if these criteria are met in a job, some people would start complaining about other aspects. That is why it is quite unrealistic that each and every employee would be happy in their workplace.    
	In conclusion, some common factors like salary, respect, learning opportunity, work environment and job security could be influential aspects for job satisfaction but it is quite impossible for all employees to be happy in their job environment.
Essay 1212:
	It is believed most of the adults’ lives are spent in their workplace, therefore many people think that job satisfaction is an essential matter for them. There are various factors that affect job satisfaction and the following essay will discuss in details about some of the factors, and whether the factors are realistic or not.
	There are some points that influence job satisfaction. Firstly, many employees believe that they are satisfied with their careers since the tasks are in accordance with their passions. They think that the work that they are currently doing is aligned with their talents and they are performing well. Secondly, some employees believe that they would be satisfied with their jobs if they are paid with the expected compensation and benefits. They are being realistic that salary is also a trigger to their work performance. And lastly but not least, a lot of people believe that a conducive working environment would also affect job satisfaction.
	Some people are idealistic persons and they are willing to work hard in the task that is in accordance with their talent. This kind of thought is realistic since working is not just being paid, but it should also be meaningful and satisfying. As for the compensation and benefit, it is a fact that human kinds are never satisfied with their salary and total earnings. The idea that employees would be satisfied with their jobs if they are paid high is just not realistic. Salary would only satisfy them for a certain amount of time and after that, they will ask for more. And as for the conducive working environment, it would be difficult to find the ideal environment. Every workplace has its owned unique culture and style; therefore the workers should adapt and adjust themselves to the working environment.
	In conclusion, it is true that adults are spending a lot of their time at work, therefore jobs satisfaction is an important thing. There are several factors that contribute to job satisfaction, but some are realistic while others are just not.
Essay 1213:
	People are expecting to contribute a large proportion of their adult life into their career, especially when the retirement age has been postponed in many countries. Job satisfaction is the most determinant element of individual well-being because of its significant role in people’s lives.
	There are some widely recognised factors that are considered having positive effects on job satisfaction. First of all, whether the job is desirable can largely affect how satisfied people will be when they are doing the job every day. For example, as a horticulturist, having the opportunity to work in the best garden nursery in town would give me very high job satisfaction. Secondly, and also equally important, the salary can influence people’s job satisfaction significantly. Although, in theory, job satisfaction is not supposed to be measured by the salary; in reality, a decent income enables people to meet their needs, which otherwise would be unmet. The dissatisfaction from the unmet needs could easily balance out the satisfaction gained from work. Moreover, the work environment and relationship with colleagues are both notable factors that would contribute to job satisfaction.
	Job satisfaction is so important to everyone; however, it is not realistic to believe that everyone has it. The workforce is getting more and more competitive that it is hard to land a job that is both desirable and well-paid. It is inevitable that some workers have to compromise their desires and needs to secure a position in this fierce job market.
	To draw the conclusion, the nature of the job and the income generated from the work affect job satisfaction significantly. It would be a dream if everyone feels highly satisfied with work, but it is not the case in reality due to the hardship of securing a position in nowaday's labour market.
Essay 1214:
	Most people do jobs to earn money for their livings. There are various reasons for many people to do jobs. For example, some people do jobs to spend their time in something they like to do, some for the salary, some to utilise their skills and to gather more experience and some to gain social status. Some people even prefer to do a job rather than looking after their family business because they do not like the business. This is why job satisfaction became more versatile to many people who are engaged in different jobs.
	There are various reasons along with the above-stated factors which are related to job satisfaction. For example, some people are engaged in such a job, that they don't want to do but they couldn't find any other suitable work. This creates dissatisfaction in their mind. Besides, in many cases, dissatisfaction creates due to the surroundings, workplace and ego. As an example, the first job of mine was in City Bank head office which was very much neat and clean. Whenever I entered the office, it gave me peace and a positive inspiration to work. Moreover, the colleagues around me were also very much friendly and helpful. That is why I barely could make a difference with my home. But, when I joined Prime Bank, I found that the employees are not talking to me in a friendly manner as I expected. Their expressions were some sort of rude to me. To overcome the issue I tried to make them easy through various efforts like appreciating their work, offering them a treat after office hour, engage them in sports activity etc.
	Finally, I would like to say that it is not possible for every person to get satisfaction in their jobs. The main reason is there are various types of people who work in the same place and all do not have the same mindset. Some people will be helpful, some will not be. So, it is very much unrealistic for every worker to experience satisfaction in their jobs. Some people may have a good experience, some people may have a bad experience.
Essay 1215:
	Human life is divided into three phases. Out of which an adult phase is the most energetic and enthusiastic one. In this phase, the majority of the time is spent at work so the job satisfaction is very important. Although the factors related to it varies from person to person.
	Learning is a constant process in a person's life. Though the job looks monotonous after some time, learning never stops. This could be one of the reasons that a person can never say that he knows everything related to his work field. For example, Mr Bill gates cannot say that he knows everything about computers. A challenging and responsible work would increase the desire for learning. This is certainly the most important factor in job satisfaction. For instance, Pranav Mistry mentioned in one of his interviews regarding the successful presentation of 3G, that he started the project because he felt it was an extremely challenging and socially responsible assignment.
	Another important factor could be setting up the goals. A goal is the first step towards the destination. Thru focused attitude, even the toughest goals could be achieved. For example, I did not know excel macro while I was in college. However, now I am working on that in my job. This could happen just because I had a goal to learn it after college. One more important factor could be appreciation. Most of the employee expects a confirmation that their hard work is being noticed. For instance, an award or a certificate could boost the confidence and it could motivate the employee to work on the next goal.
Essay 1216:
	No matter whether we work for a living or we live for working, this is a stark reality that working covers the majority time of our lives and job satisfaction factors have been always considered important by workers. In the other hand, managers have always tried to increase job satisfaction elements in their companies as they believe that there is a direct relationship between job satisfaction and the company’s profit. Therefore there have been lots of debates about recognising some elements which are most effective on this matter and the ways which company can respond to this kind of worker’s need.
	According to science management which has been embedded in Taylor studies, Money is the best element to encourage workers and make them happy from their jobs, but it has been proved that money is not the only factor or enough and some other elements should be implemented to make employees satisfied. For example, making an atmosphere in the workplace which a worker can work without any stress or concern can make a worker’s life easier. These days the culture of a company plays a critical role to contribute to job satisfaction. Put another way, the office culture helps workers to be interested in their jobs or vice versa. For instance, in some cultures, managers just specify some duties for workers and ask them to do. By contrast, some other encourage workers to come to problems, think and improve them which has a deep effect on workers as they don’t find themselves just as a cog in a machine.
	However, it is not possible to make all of the workers satisfied in a company as anyone has a different character and individual aspects, at present various ways to get job satisfaction have been recognized and developed and a successful manager is someone who can find the best approach to increase the average of job satisfaction in the company.
Essay 1217:
	In current society, people’s dignity is shown by their education and job. Most of the people turn to work in the office environment because nowadays farms and agricultural products have less value. People spend most of the time in the office so job satisfaction is an essential part of someone's wellbeing  However, I believe that satisfaction at work is everyone’s dream.
	Firstly, there are many factors that influence job enjoyment. A good working environment that includes job security and better salary is the main and most important thing which helps each employee to be happy. Then comfortable seating and adequate lighting are other factors. For instance, if a person works in an information technology department, his work needs comfortable seating and lighting arrangement. Next is about timing as people like to work for fixed hours like seven to eight hours.
	But according to women they wish to work less than that because they have household works and need to take care of their children. "Leaves" and "days off" are other contributing factors to provide job happiness. For example, employees who work as shift duties they have to work on public holidays, so it leads to unhappiness for them. Some workers wish to have the food and accommodation facilities near to the office because it’s really difficult to reach the office due to traffic in the peak time.
	When we think about the reality of job satisfaction, it should come from ourselves. Most of the people have to make their job environment-friendly and balanced. First of all, when we get a job offer letter, we have to think about the satisfaction that we might get from that job. Most of the people are looking for a better salary only. In such cases, they may need to sacrifice some factors, like working at night time and doing on-call duties. If an employee has any difficulties in working environment, he can raise the concern to the human resource department, because in all companies they have employee satisfaction department for their employees.
	To conclude, I believe that job pleasure and satisfaction is important in workplaces because if there is a good working environment and employees are happy, their productivity and enthusiasm to work will be better. Even though there are many things which make workers happy, it should be contributed by ourselves.
Essay 1218:
	Majority while away at work, spend a great deal of time of their lives that it is important how they feel about their jobs and how much satisfied they really are. 
	Job satisfaction from their employment is the most valuable factor for their personal gain and to spend time at offices. Job satisfaction depends on personal favour for the job and background of the working place. However, all employees can't expect satisfied jobs always.
	Firstly, every person prefers to do an occupation for his own anticipation. However, they hope that job will satisfy and aid them to gain their lives successfully. For example, if someone loves dancing, singing, art or sports, they should find their career according to their favour. If they fix upon other professions, they could not be satisfied with their jobs and the will become bored to continue it. Employment plays an influential role in adult life because personal and family expenditure runs through the occupation.
	In addition, the environment of the office is another important factor for job satisfaction and it rests on the employer and other office staff. For instance, if an employer is unable to co-operate with employees and more rigid rules and regulations adapt to the company, then workers will dislike working there. Furthermore, office staff should be warm-hearted persons and give the helping hands to each of other. Thus, an employer should take care of his workers and these types of factors create better satisfaction on job surrounding.
	To conclude, expecting a job for content is much difficult nowadays and because of that everyone has to prepare themselves for any job for job satisfaction.
Essay 1219:
	In today's modern world, most people spend the majority of their life working. Therefore, some people assert that job satisfaction plays an important role in moulding a wellbeing individual. In this essay, we will examine what are the factors that lead to job satisfaction and how realistic is the demand for job satisfaction for all the employees.
	There are several main points that contribute to job satisfaction. To begin, a high salary is, undoubtedly, the key factor towards job satisfaction. People nowadays are becoming more status-conscious and materialistic which lead them to the desires of buying things including the most up-to-date electronic gadgets for men and trendy handbags, shoes and dresses for women. It is due to the reason that they may want to get self-satisfaction after spending their precious time working for a company. However, a high paid job is not always available and it is nearly impossible to offer it to all the workers owing to the reason that the profit of a company made may not be able to cover all the expenditure of a company.
	In addition, a good welfare system of an organisation is, admittedly, the major concern of the employees. If every company is able to guarantee to pay the retirees a huge amount of pension, it will unquestionably allow every employee to get satisfied with their jobs. With the well-organised welfare system, every retired will not be a burden to their family, in return, they still can help to support their family financially. Nevertheless, it is not provided by every company to pay pensions to every retired of their company as they may not have extra money as they have to make preparations for the unanticipated financial problems of their company.
	In conclusion, although there are numerous factors that contribute to one's job satisfaction, not all companies are able to fulfil their employees' demands. I believe that every individual can get satisfied with their jobs one day in the near future as long as our nation continues to prosper and flourish.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1209-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-290-many-parents-use-punishment-to-teach-the-difference-between-right-and-wrong-to-kids",
Essay 1220:
	Parenting is a very difficult challenge all around the world. Most of the parents consider punishment a better teaching method instead of listening and communicating with the children. However, to my mind, anything excess is bad. It I not deniable that the punishment is one of the easiest ways to teach children good or bad but it should not be the only way of teaching.
	To start with, children are very sensitive, want love and care. They need their parents’ support and encouragement in every aspect of their life. So, it is considered by most of the psychologists that by giving harsh punishments too often parents are making their children prone to violence. Hence, it is now proven by social researchers that children learn less from punishments, becomes shy and insecure and it may affect their social behaviour.
	However, it is deniable that children are naturally advantageous and curious about everything. Some are stubborn and need to deal differently. For such children, parents and teachers should adopt a strict but no-torture behaviour. It could include numerous methods such as scolding, taking their favourite belonging for a couple of days or limiting their leisure time. In addition, cancelling their pocket money for a month or cancel a weekend outing plan could be a better option rather than locking them alone in a dark room.
	In conclusion, I surely believe that minor punishments could teach children the difference between right and wrong, however, the consequences could be different for every individual child. I suggest that there should be a proper and balanced communication of parents and teachers with the children.
Essay 1221:
	Teaching children to differentiate between the right and the wrong is an important and critical job for parents. There is one school of thought that believes that children can learn to distinguish between good and bad when they are subjected to punishment. From my point of view, punishment is one of the several methods, which will allow young brains to understand the difference between the positive and negative aspects of any action.
	The human, by nature, performs efficiently and learn better when they are subjected to the sense of fear, rewards or greed. When it comes to children, they do behave and act better under the condition of getting punished, in case a wrong thing is done. Punishment without actually beating can be practised under certain scenarios, where the objective is to make young ones learn a lesson and develop cognitive abilities. Punishment can be in different forms, for instance stopping pocket money of children for a couple of days, reducing playtime of children and not buying them gifts or toys are also effective punishment.
	On the other hand, the notion of rewards and appreciation can also make young ones become better decision makers. Research show that kids take smart decisions when they are in a competition and expect a reward at the end of that. School going kids are often subject to beating in some parts of the world and this is definitely not the advised way to deal with young pupils. Teachers, who are considered as eternal parents, make use of sticks and sometimes hands to physically punish students. This situation creates negative impacts on children and they lose confidence, feel insecure, and they become shy. Contrary to this, if the same students are handled in a more balanced way by following the rule of carrot and stick, that will bring desired results, children will acquire abilities to choose between what is beneficial for them and what is not.
	To conclude, it is evident from above discussion that punishment is one of the tools to make young ones learn and adapt skills of differentiating between right or wrong. But, there are other ways which are even more effective to achieve the same objective.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1208-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-289-scientists-contribute-more-to-society",
Essay 1222:
	Science is the backbone of technological developments that has helped in human dominance in the world. It is true that the government and authorities have not provided any extra incentives or scholarship to the science students. In my opinion, the government should provide extra benefits to science students.
	To commence with, scientists and researchers are the people who dedicated their life for the society. Firstly, they are the people who work hard to discover new technologies, medicines and the like by neglecting their family life. As everyone knows a scientist’s life is full of stress and tension, most of the intelligent youngsters have a reluctant mind to become a scientist or researcher.
	Furthermore, scientists are the boons to humanity. In this modern world, most of the essential problems can be solved with a mouse click ranging from e-banking to telemedicine. Moreover, Computers, televisions and mobile phones have made human life easier, faster and efficient.
	On the contrary, there are thousands of students who do not have the basic facility and money to complete their elementary education which is quite necessary for the development of the country and individual. There is an army of people asserts that 100% literacy rate should be the primary goal of a country and illiterate need to get more support. In this regards, providing extra facilities to the science students only might seem a discriminating idea. 
	To recapitulate, scientists’ contribution towards society and to the world is invaluable so the science students deserve more favourable support from the government, these supports can attract more students towards this field.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1207-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-288-multinational-companies-and-their-products-are-becoming-more-and-more-important",
Essay 1223:
	We are all surrounded by multinational companies and their products, which we feel is more trustworthy and long lasting. The tendency of promoting international brands is making us so dependable on their products and directly impacting our finances and currency value of the country.
	Usually, International products are costly compared to native brands, but those can have good packaging and advertisement records. By the influences of ads, buyers prefer international products, though local products are good in quality and durability. Therefore, it increases the requirement for international products in markets and they get better profit and sells in our own country.
	Yet at the part of above, multinational companies are also responsible for increasing employment in our country. They hire local people to run their businesses and companies opened in overseas. They provide chances to communicate and interact with people of different countries and to experience their lifestyle, which makes people connected all over the globe.
	There are many products that are not locally built and people of a country then look for the international products. Thus the need for people is changed according to the products sold by the multinational companies. There are many local products which are in no way lower in quality compared to the internationally renowned products and the advertisement and attractive marketing policy of the multinational brands are winning over the local products. Many job markets are being created by the multinational company but on the other hands their products are also wiping out many local products as well.  
	Therefore, I truly agree that multinational companies are damaging the quality of our life, but some other way it is upgrading our lifestyle too. So we need to make a balance in that and promote native products as well. Being a citizen of a country we should think about own country's development, which in turns is our own development. After all, you reap whatever you have sown.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1206-fixed-punishments-for-each-type-of-crime",
Essay 1224:
	Some people argue whether criminals should always be subject to fixed punishment for certain crimes or situations for committing the crime should be taken into account before inflicting punishment. This essay will examine both sides of the argument, but I am personally inclined to the latter view that suggests considering circumstances of a crime while sentencing someone.
	On the one hand, criminal activities have reduced significantly over the centuries in the history of humankind. Fixed punishments like the death penalty, life imprisonment for drug trafficking deter an offender from such heinous crimes. The ruthlessness of such harsh punishments ensured safety and security in society. For instance, according to a publication on criminal justice from the C.I.A, many middle countries have been consistently ranking near top regarding achieving a low-crime index due to their aggressive law for enforcing fixed punishments for designated crimes. Nevertheless, the main objective of the law and order is to protect the innocents and punish the wrongdoers. The fixed punishment often contradicts with the fundamental objective of civil society.  
	On the other hand, persecuting a convict violate human rights; often without considering the aspects leading to such crime. Consider Saudi Arabia, ranked as the country with the lowest crime index in the world. The state’s implementation of a strict fundamentalist approach to persecute criminals regardless of the circumstances of the crime has drawn flak from many human rights organisations. Amnesty International reported that fair trials are prohibited to criminals even if they are wrongly convicted. Finally, in my opinion, a convicted person should be given punishment only based on the circumstances and severity of the crime. For example, if someone murders in the act of self-defence, the verdict given should not amount to life-sentence.
	In conclusion, I believe that both groups of the argument, for and against the fixed punishments, have their reasons. However, I think that penalties should be decided according to variant circumstances of criminals and keeping in mind that the aim of punishment to prevent further crimes to happen.
Essay 1225:
	Have you ever thought about being a judge? There may be various situations in our daily lives in which our judgments are needed to be expressed. But is it really as simple as the situations we encounter every day when it comes to judging serious crimes? For a long time, it has been a controversial issue whether there must be fixed punishments for any kind of crime or the incentive is an influential factor that is crucial to be considered. I personally approve of the latter belief since there are a lot of crimes in which the criminal is not really guilty.
	On the one hand, a group of people dogmatically believe the punishment for any crime ought to be fixed regardless of the crime’s motive. They state that if felons know there is severe punishment even for small crimes, they are hindered and will never attempt to commit a crime. Therefore, the violence and crime rates decline considerably and thus a better society we will have. For instance, in Saudi Arabia, the punishment for robbery is of one the robber’s hands being cut irrespective of what he has stolen, an apple or a car.
	On the other hand, the other group of society argues that where the felony stems from must be investigated and the motivation should be taken into consideration when sentencing a criminal. As a justification, they cite that there are situations in which the crime has not been done deliberately or the culprit is not the real wrongdoer. In particular, in an involuntary homicide, the killer might be the victim since it might have self-defence or a robbery for feeding a family differs from robbing for profit. In this case, the judge is who can decide the best penalty considering every aspect and condition of crime perpetration.
	On the whole, even though fixed punishments can be extremely beneficial in the decrease of crime rate and may culminate in a safer society, the justice system should be flexible enough towards certain felonies and consider the crime’s rationale and conditions for giving the most appropriate verdict.
Essay 1226:
	In recent years, there has been a rise in the number of crimes being committed. Many people are of the opinion that these wrong-doings should be classified categorically. However, I believe that each offence should be looked upon in a subjective manner, taking into account the nature and severity of these unlawful activities.
	Giving a fixed punishment would definitely make court proceedings a lot quicker. This is because the judges would not need to decide what type of punishment criminals would deserve as it would have been already decided for them. However, this is an unfair practice as some of the criminals may not deserve the punishments given to them. For example, a person robbing a convenient store will not deserve the same punishment as a person robbing a bank because the degree of the crime is not as severe as the latter.
	On the other hand, deciding a crime according to the situation and motive of it makes perfect sense as it would ensure that the lawbreaker is given a fair trial and the right punishment is handed down to him. For instance, a mentally ill person who commits a murder would be judged accordingly, instead of being grouped into the same category of all the other type of murderers. This, therefore, will make the trial balance and fair.
	In conclusion, my opinion is that the punishment for a crime should be made up based on all the factors leading up to the unlawful action rather than providing judgement based on the classification of crimes into types.
Essay 1227:
	In recent days, there is an ongoing debate on how to give appropriate punishment toward people who accused with criminal activities. Some state that they should be punished by looking at the type of crime they have committed, while some people believe that the circumstance and reason of committing a crime should be given a high priority while accusing someone of the crime. However, I personally argue that these ideas are definitely true and through this essay, I will support these views with some considerations below.
	Nowadays, the fact shows that there are some cases given injustice punishment toward a criminal. For instance, a grandmother stole three chocolates last year and she had to spend times in prison for several years. In contrast of the corruptors stealing plenty of money from society but punished only a year and completed by good service from the police. In short, the law of government should review and rearrange the constitution when deciding on the punishment. They should think of the punishment types as the consideration of the punishment decision.
	Turning to the other arguments, the government also should pay attention to the reason why people have committed criminalities. For example, there are some cases which show the most reason for committing a crime are economic problems. A lot of people have no job thus they prefer to do misconduct to fulfil their daily need. The most obvious solution is by taking the motivation of criminals as an essential consideration in giving punishment.
	As a result, I truly believe that these ideas are an essential consideration that can encounter social justice.
Essay 1228:
	To date, we have thousands of laws, regulations, general rules enumerated to ensure our society functions as it should be. However, these restrictions could never be enough to cover every circumstance that happened around-the-clock. Therefore, should the law be our gospel for us to follow strictly without deviation? Or should we perceive each case as an individual and take multiple factors into considerations? My opinion is definitely on the latter.
	For people who value law as an impregnable principle, the law itself would surpass human judgments. Humanity could be a defection when coming to talk about righteousness. Sentiments and bias might get in the way and eventually lead to miscalculation and unjustness, resulting in man-made errors, a horrendous failure for justice.
	Despite the fact that human error is almost inevitable, people still believe taking certain factors into consideration is genuinely legitimate. Laws are considered the most basic requirement of human morality, making it the reason why this issue has become controversial. People might have broken the law yet the motivation behind such a deed could alter our interpretation to it. The main character in the Opera “Les miserable” stole a loaf of bread because he was almost starved to death; a young heroin addict pickpocketed a wallet to cater to his cravings. These two cases above are both thieveries, yet the morality standard was hardly even. Our cognition helps us reconsider and adjust our decisions and prevent us from nonchalantly putting the same amount of punishment on these two men without pondering over some more congruous solution.
	The law could be the guidance, a foundation of our ethical standards. Nevertheless, we still have to make room for flexibilities and consider every crime as an individual.
Essay 1229:
	There is a controversial fact that whether there should be fixed punishments for crimes or the factors that might lead the crime should be taken into consideration, while penalties for crimes are detected. In my opinion, to decide justice both of them are required. The circumstances brought about the crime should play a role to slight the penalty or deteriorate the punishment.
	Some people believe that each crime should be performed as a specific punishment that serves to implement justice in a society. In this practice, each person who did the same crime is punished as a standard punishment. For instance, the penalty of forgery is a standard for every person. Every thief, child or adult does not matter, is convicted in the same way.
	On the other hand, another group of people think that each occasion related to crime is different from one another. Because psychology and position of guilty, environmental factors and reasons and results of the crime affect the damage of the crime on people or society. Accordingly, such mentioned factors should be detectable on the level of punishment. For instance, if a person causes a traffic accident by a mistake, his position, his regret and his emotional situation should be evaluated, when the penalty is assigned.
Essay 1230:
	In today's modern world, we are constantly bombarded with the issue of crime which has recently increased at an alarming rate in newspapers. Some people, therefore, are of the opinion that all kinds of crime should have its own punishment which is legislated by the government. However, there are a handful of people who assert that some background reasons, which cause the criminals to commit crimes, should be included in the procedure of deciding on the punishment. Hence, we will examine both sides of the argument before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	On the other hand, it is vital to take into account the reasons why criminals commit crimes. First of all, many of them, especially teenagers who are more vulnerable to those feelings of loneliness are more easily influenced by their peers. They do not have mature thinking and are not being aware of the possible negative impacts of committing crimes. According to recent research conducted in Columbia, the statistic has shown that about 58% of the youngsters got affected by their badly behaved friends when got caught to involve in crimes. It is also believed by the public that many criminals have the lackings of parental love which eventually causes them to behave violently and aggressively. They, therefore, involve committing crimes including robberies and murders to show how powerful they are.
	In conclusion, I am of the opinion that every jury should make their decisions on punishments by considering the reasons why they commit crimes. Our nation will surely continue to prosper and flourish in the decades to come once the crime rates are successfully reduced.
Essay 1231:
	Many people debate on what should be done about punishment on criminals. Some individuals believe that there should be standard punishment for every kind of crime and that should be followed while sentencing a criminal. Yet, some others argue that reasons for crime and background of executing crime should be considered while determining proper punishment for criminals. This essay will take a look at this issue from both points of views.
	To begin with, people may agree to impose fixed standard punishment on criminals based on the crime they committed. By doing this, criminals will be punished according to the crime they made and it seems fair for everyone since they believe the bigger the crime, the harder the prison. For example, imposing the death penalty to both murderer and terrorist who have committed to the same type of crime seems reasonable to many people. It is a considerably equal crime and therefore, they should be punished by death sentence. When someone kills a person, no matter what was the reason, s/he should be punished according to the predetermined laws.  
	On the other hand, others argue that in determining the proper punishment for criminals, there should be some considerations of what were the motives of crime and also the background of criminals. There must be different punishment between a serial killer and someone who was forced to kill for self-defending. Applying same punishment to the woman who stole a loaf of bread from a store to feed her hungry baby and a corrupt government employee who stole millions of dollar to amass his wealth is not at all justified though stealing was the crime in both cases.  
	All in all, fixed punishment is needed to standardise punishment for different crimes. Nonetheless, there should be some considerations on the motives and environment of criminals in imposing the proper punishment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1205-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-286-governments-should-make-education-compulsory-for-all-children",
Essay 1232:
	Nowadays, education is viewed as an essential factor in building a promising future for our society. Leaders and other governing bodies see it as a priority issue for the world's progress and development, hence, many believe that it should be mandated for children, especially, during the early stage of their development. This argument can be supported by stating its benefits, not only to children but to their parents and to the society in general.
	First and foremost, compulsory education for children will hone their personality in a well-controlled and well-mannered environment. For instance, teachers manage the classrooms and make sure that it is suitable for learning. They also teach their students new knowledge, guide them in learning new skills and discipline them in order to build new moral character. Thus, the school helps to hone an individual a positive personality that will soon be an asset to the society.
	Secondly, if the government will mandate primary education, parents will have no choice but to send their children to school. They will need to provide necessary support, not only in the moral aspects but financial aspects of schooling. These facts will promote responsible parenthood.
	Lastly, through mandatory education, each and every individual will have an understanding and greater awareness of the issues to make the world a better place. Therefore, eliminating ignorance and illiteracy that create gaps within the society can be done through the mandatory education system. In fact, the schooling of children in many countries is mandatory and it reflects the needs of education for all in the societies.
	In summary, the benefits brought about by compulsory education are beneficial and is a vital factor in the society's development.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1204-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-285-young-drug-abuse-is-a-serious-problem-nowadays-in-many-countries",
Essay 1233:
	Today, juveniles consume more illegal drugs than in the past. They have a better access to more variety of opioid or non-opioid materials and use them far more remarkably. From my point of view, two important reasons have made this problem, and several practical implementations must be considered by governments to tackle it.
	To begin with, one leading reason why youth use more illicit drugs is that these materials have become more accessible than before. Obviously, drug dealers have expanded their territories in many countries, like Columbia in the South America or Afghanistan in Asia, and their control has become far more challenging than in the past. To address this problem, the best option is consideration of more severe charges for those selling these dreadful products. In this case, in some countries, leaders of this system are charged with lifetime probation, or even in other countries, including Iran, they may face capital punishment. Therefore, these severe penalties can partly be helpful to control the expansion of illegal drugs’ industries, and young generation will be less exposed to these perilous substances.
	Another factor is accessing of the public to more different types of these substances. Admittedly, advancement of technology has led more synthetic goods are generated and cheaper artificial drugs are to be produced. For instance, Crack, which is a synthetic form of Heroin, is more available to the public than the other former natural opioid, leading adolescents or teens are able to pay better for it. Had not this non-natural material become so available, fewer people would have been addicted. To solve this, one important step is increasing the budget of healthcare. Definitely, many users do not have thorough information about the devastating side effects of these drugs while having a better control on this age group, healthcare staff will be able to recognise better those individuals consuming these drugs and inform them how they can avoid using them.
	In conclusion, now youth have access to more illicit drugs than before. Propagation of dealers’ function and variation of these materials are two important reasons behind it. I think consideration of more severe law enforcement and having a better consultation of young people are two phenomenal actions to address it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1203-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-284-modern-societies-need-specialists-in-certain-fields",
Essay 1234:
	In our modern world, people’s educational background is considered one of the greatest priorities to many administrations. Some may say that some more important study must be supported more by state authorities; however, others, included myself agree that the drawbacks of this method outweigh the positive influences.
	On the one hand, those who believe that focusing more on some specific essential curriculum by governments is more beneficial to humans have their reasons. One reason behind it is that they will face fewer healthcare problems. Admitting of more medical or nursing students will lead the general public to gain a better quality of healthcare system. For example, had the government of India backed up medical students more, Indian people would have had a better level of well-being; but unfortunately, every year hundreds of medical graduates have to move their country into Western countries for finding better study opportunities. Another advantage is that more starved nations will be nourished. Farming should be supported more by governments. Investing more in agricultural education, countries will have more advanced and mechanised agriculture, and more developed techniques will be used in this sector.
	On the other hand, I personally believe that all study subjects must be valued equally, and all humans have similar rights to receive identical funds to continue their study. The first obvious factor is that the rate of unemployment will increase if university principals follow this policy. Clearly, by supporting more specific study subjects, the number jobless professionals will increase far considerably. For instance, in Iran, two decades ago, the capacity of medical universities was enhanced by the government, and more loans were given to medical students. This caused the number of medical graduates grew fast, and gradually their employment opportunity dropped. Furthermore, it can be against the civil rights. Obviously, all citizens pay tax and must have a wide selection to choose their favourite study material. If they do not receive equal financial support, they may become unsatisfied citizens.
	To sum up, although some education fields are more phenomenal to societies, from my point of view, all study courses must be validated similarly by administrations because all applicants have equal rights, and this method may increase the number of unemployed professionals being more backed up.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1202-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-283-proportion-of-the-world-s-population-living-in-cities-has-increased-substantially",
Essay 1235:
	Today, people’s lifestyles have fundamentally been changed by urbanisation. It is believed that these alterations have had some positive influences; however, I personally think that their drawbacks will become far influential.
	On the one hand, migration of rural residents into cities has had two important advantages on infrastructures. One is that constructions have been more developed. To build more high-rise buildings, construction developers have invested more in cities than the rural areas, leading citizens to access to stronger residential premises in urban areas. As a prime example, in Los Angeles, immigration of villagers has caused many investors to spend their money and develop more Skyscrapers, and LA citizens have access to more equipped apartments. Furthermore, transportation has been improved dramatically. Governments have had to provide more bus or train as more people have moved from suburbs to cities; therefore, the quality of infrastructures in transportation has gradually been raised. In particular, in Vancouver, mass migration of villagers has led the administration to consider more funds for the upgrading of transport systems in the downtown area.
	On the other hand, I personally believe that it could be like a tip of an iceberg if we only consider the positive influences, and the negative consequences should be figured out. One reason behind it is that more agricultural lands will be degraded. Clearly, the more buildings are built, the more farmlands vegetations and woods will be ruined, and soil will be eroded. For instance, in Tehran, the Capital city of Iran, construction of more residential structures has tremendously changed the natural habitat. Many of agricultural lands have been eroded, and if this method continues, more farmlands will be destroyed by these constructions. In addition, freshwater resources will be contaminated. In this case, had not more rural households moved to New York, less freshwater would have been ruined. Unfortunately, mass immigration of people to cities will cause more freshwater plants and animals to be death in the future.
	In conclusion, although urbanisation might have had some positive influences on some important infrastructures of cities, its drawbacks should not be forgotten. From my point of view, if this pattern continues, more freshwater resources and farmlands will be demolished. If I were a governor, I would consider more restrictions on these changes.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1201-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-282-chemical-fertilizer-is-being-used-more-nowadays",
Essay 1236:
	Today, innovations in farming have changed citizens' lives far significantly. Some individuals believe that the new chemicals used in agriculture have had numerous drawbacks on people's health. However, others, myself included, believe that the positive influences can surpass the negative consequences.
	On the one hand, some people believe that chemical materials used for food are like a tip of an iceberg. One reason is that they can increase the risk of obesity. Hormones are the ones which are applied as fertilisers in vegetables or animal products, causing the users to become more overweight. For example, the rate of obesity has fundamentally grown among the U.S. citizens, who use the greatest amounts of non-organic foods in the world. These types of foods are considerably more economical than the organic ones, being used hugely by Americans, who are number one when it comes to the obesity rate. Another side effect is the risk of resistance. Using of these chemical materials, crops may defend less themselves against mutated pests. In particular, billions of tonnes of corn products were ruined in Canada in 2009 because of new species of these modified pests, reported by the National Geographic magazine.
	On the other hand, I give a green light to the usage of these products because of having more advantages. One important benefit is that these fertilisers have increased the productivity of agricultural products. Clearly, the more they are used by farmers, the more massive crops are generated. As a prime example, we can see the quality of apple has been improved notably, compared to the past. The shape, volume, colour and even price of it have been changed positively, and many of citizens can afford it; therefore, even low-income families are able to purchase it. Furthermore, crops are nourished by more valuable items. In many farm industries, vitamins and minerals are added to crops, leading them to become far nutritious than the organic products. In particular, had not these chemicals been used in rice, more children would have suffered from Vitamin B deficiency, the most abundant vitamin being found in non-organic rice.
	In conclusion, although consumption of chemical materials can be partly risky, I personally believe that their advantages can be greater than their negative side effects. These materials have helped humans to not only be able to afford better their food, but they can consume more healthy products than before. If I were a governor, I would support those industries producing them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1200-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-281-high-school-students-to-evaluate-and-criticize-their-teachers",
Essay 1237:
	Nowadays, in some high schools scholars are allowed to blame their tutors for their method of teaching. Some say that this strategy can improve the quality of training; however, others, including myself, believe that its advantages outweigh the benefits being earned from this system because teaching will become less effective, the rate of offence will increase and more budgets will be needed for education.
	Obviously, I give a green light to those believing that students should not be involved in teaching because of three important reasons. One is that following this method, the quality of education can drop. Definitely, rules are extremely important for controlling of students because many of them do not have enough experience about teaching, reducing the educational performance thoroughly. For example, had our principal allowed us to give our opinion about practical physic lessons, we would not have learned the detail of them. We understood that our physic trainer had been one of the best ones in this course; however, had we allowed to have challenges with him, we would have missed him.
	Another reason behind it is that the rate of violence can increase markedly. Students feel more freedom in other aspects of their life when their opinions are valued in this area, and their behaviours will become less controllable. This group can become more aggressive in the workplace, university or even in their relations to other citizens. However, when they face some restrictions during this stage in their life, they become more probable law-abiding citizens.
	Lastly, the cost of education can increase. Admittedly, this method of education will become more costly because students always consider the quality of teaching, while the expenses must be included in the new changes. For instance, if an instructor, having one-year training contract, is banned by students to teach them, he will receive the total salary. Authorities usually consider all aspects of education, including finance, and budget.
	In conclusion, although some people might agree that students’ opinions should be valued by authorities, I personally believe that this is not a perfect method. Having a better control by the administration, the rate of violation among students and education expenses will decrease, and authorities will have a better control on the efficacy of training system.
Essay 1238:
	It is argued whether supporting high school students for assessing their teachers in the pursuit of improving educational quality would result in disrespect and indiscipline in the classroom. This essay agrees that evaluation of teachers by secondary school students will improve the standard of education without any loss of control and respect in the classroom. Firstly, this essay will discuss why adolescent students should gauge their teachers and secondly, discuss why gauging teachers will not cause any loss of respect and discipline in the classroom.
	Evaluation by an adolescent student provides feedback to the teacher on improving their teaching methodologies to increase classroom participation. This will further invoke the teacher to refine ways to captivate the student’s attention. Increased participation will help the student in scoring better grades. For example, a famous school in Bangladesh named Scholastica significantly improved the performance of their students in the classroom when teachers came to know about their struggles through the teacher feedback system.
	Teacher evaluation will not provoke any kind of disrespectful or undisciplined behaviours by students to thrive in the classroom rather it will kerb such behaviours by boosting mutual understanding by identifying their special needs. This will provide, especially the weaker students,  a chance to express their problems in comprehending lectures and establish rapport. According to the magazine “Psychology Today”, adolescent students who never received attention from teachers will become a bully who are disrespectful and undisciplined both in and out of the classroom environment .
	In conclusion, assessment of teachers by high school students can not only help tuning teaching techniques but also  promote mutual understanding among each other with respect and discipline ultimately improving the quality of education.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1199-some-countries-have-experienced-very-rapid-economic-development",
Essay 1239:
	Over the past few years, a number of countries have enormously raised their economic status. Consequently, this has made the living standards of urban areas higher than the rural areas, which could bring some serious problems in the future for such countries.
	First of all, it is a deniable fact that due to higher opportunities in studies as well as in employments, a large number of people from rural areas move to big cities. This phenomenon results in overpopulation and automatically makes the accommodations expensive. Another noticeable problem is the social gap between the urban areas and the rural areas. The rich are becoming richer and the poor are becoming poorer. This could lead to growing number of crime as villagers want an equal level of living standards as that of urban citizens.
	Again, putting emphasis on developing urban areas is not a prudent idea by the government. In many developing countries, rural areas are still the base and root for the overall economy of the country while cities are getting the benefits of the modern development. This is an uneven distribution and would bring many negative effects. In the long run, the economic development would hamper since the rural people are deprived of the advancement.
	Numerous methods can be taken by governments of these countries to overcome these problems. At first, all the basic needs such as hospitals, schools, universities, factories, banks and companies should be built in rural areas as well and their standards should be equal to as that of urban areas. Due to this, the people will have fewer reasons to leave their hometowns and migrate to cities. At second, there will be less competition in every field, so higher opportunities of employments and studies will be available.
	Hence, in conclusion, although there are several problematic issues related to the economic development in cities, but in my view, the government can and must solve these problems as early as possible before they become unsolvable.
Essay 1240:
	Many cities of the world are enjoying an ever increasing economic and trade facilities. Besides, there are plenty of activities to create new infrastructure such as roads, hospitals, schools, and parks in city areas which improve the lifestyle of city dwellers. Similarly, more businesses and more job opportunities are being created in the cities. But, studies show that progress in country sides are very slow and many such rural areas do not even have basic infrastructure and job facilities. This results in the migration of people from rural areas to cities for better living. As a result, cities are also facing issues like overpopulation and pollution. Overpopulation in a city adds pressures on existing facilities like transport, education, health, and recreational places. For the same reason, there is an increase in the air, water, and noise pollution of cities that receive an influx of migrants from rural areas. The overall development of a country depends on a balanced development both in cities and rural areas and that is why developments of rural areas are also required.
	In order to tackle issues mentioned above, both the government and private sectors need to work together. First, they need to start constructing a strong network of road and transportation that will connect rural areas to urban areas. Thus goods and other materials can be transported efficiently and the economy and trade would flourish more. Second, the government should give subsidy to business people to establish factories and industries in the rural areas. This will create more job opportunities at the footstep of villagers, and thus improve their living standards. Thirdly, banks should give easy loans to farmers to invest in the crops and get better yield at the time of harvest. Above all, more facilities such as colleges, hospitals and playgrounds should be created in rural areas so people living there do not need to migrate to a city for a better living.
	To conclude, it is evident that world’s cities have gone through a rapid progression in terms of trade and development but that was not shared at same ratio with country sides. This contributed to many major metropolitan problems. But, these problems can be reduced to a greater extent, when both the government and private sectors make effort to divide funds and facilities between cities and villages.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1198-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-279-government-spends-too-much-money-on-space-research",
Essay 1241:
	Many developing nations, as well as third world countries, still have extremely poor literacy rates & very high percentage of people lack access to even primary education. Very few people who can get basic skills like reading and writing are unemployable due to lack of proper vocational training. The government resources should be spent on something as basic and important as employable education.
	Basic health care is also one of the most important issues. Exponentially increasing medical costs are making access to primary health care out of reach for many. Maximum countries still lack the basic medical infrastructure. Governments should prioritise medical research making health care accessible & far-reaching.
	Crime control, law and justice departments need more attention and budget and mass people are being directly affected with the lacking of basic needs. When many people starve every day and lots of people are not getting proper treatment, space research seems a luxury we can’t afford. We need to focus on the very basic needs first and then when we have the capability to conduct the space research, only then we should continue this.
	To conclude, though some think that space programs are essential for the advancement of science and technologies, a multitude of basic problems like education & medical & health care should be given a paramount importance.
Essay 1242:
	In today's scientific world, a myriad of wealth is allocated on scientific inventions and researches. Space exploration is a key area where governments in many countries are spending billions of dollars each year. Although I support space research, I opine that governments have to pay attention to the existing problems on the earth with higher priority than the space exploration. The basis for my view is economical and personal.
	Firstly, from an economical point of view, universe exploration employs more than half of the total money allocated for overall scientific research in all fields combined. As per the report published by the Week magazine on 20th September 2015, at least 30 billion dollars have been spent on the Apollo moon missions by the United States. In case, this lump sum could be used for infrastructure, education and food in poor countries, definitely the quality of life would increase with lower crime rates. Thus, it is crystal clear that existing problems in the world need better focus.
	Secondly, from a personal point of view, there is nothing we have gained so far from the space programmes. For instance, even after landing on the Moon as well as sending different missions to other planets, we are not successful in finding the existence of life anywhere outside the Earth. However, some of the missions abroad are successful in testing soil samples and sending pictures, which is not really useful for the layman. Moreover, a lot of scientists have risked their lives during the travel to outer space. Thus, higher priority needs to be given to existing issues in the world.
	In conclusion, by analysing how expensive the space research is with limited success to the citizens, there is no doubt that government need to prioritise to solve the existing problems. It is predicted that space exploration continues, but with a lower budget.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1197-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-278-in-some-countries-citizens-are-allowed-to-keep-a-gun-in-their-home",
Essay 1243:
	In many countries, it is allowed for people to keep guns in order to protect their houses from criminals. Some people believe that it has a huge gain for the owners than its drawback . On the other hand, some folks believe that it is inappropriate if every house owner has guns on their desk as it would increase the death rate from gunfire. It is not an easy topic to talk about, but this essay will discuss it.
	At first, a number of realms have certain regulation about firearm allowance for the public is caused by security point of view. They claimed that every person has their own right and duty to protect their own belongings, and any trespasser considered as a criminal. Such situations are commonly found in liberalism country, where privacy is the highest priority. What they believe are gradual with their ideology, and law about pistol possession cannot be helped.
	However, some thought grew in society. Believe that firearm owning are wrong, because it may harm other people. It is misused by their owner, instead to protect them. Gun sometimes used to hurt or even kill other people. From this, tonnes of people start to argue if it worth enough to let civilian to have their own gun for protection?
	The gunshot wounds and death rate from the gunshots is significantly higher in those countries where citizens are allowed to keep guns freely. The possessions of guns often drive people to commit crimes that were otherwise impossible. These events clearly state that there are other better ways of ensuring citizens’ safety rather than allowing having guns and shooting any trespasser.
	At last, we could see that firearm allowance is a total doom. At first, it is for protection, but it has become a threat to our society instead of becoming an assured security. I personally believe that people could protect their own lives and houses without guns, and police are more than enough to handle some big crimes that require guns to handle.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1196-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-277-economic-progress-is-one-factor-that-is-being-considered",
Essay 1244:
	Economic development is one of the factors that affects the success of a nation. However, there are other factors that can determine whether or not a country is successful. Personally, I agree that economic progress is one factor in measuring accomplishment of a country and health and education degrees are true as other cause of national achievement.
	To begin with, Human Development Index (HDI), which is used widely to measure the success of a country, points than economic progress through national income index is utilised to assess how wealth a nation is. This index indicates how many citizens are living under standardised income level and the vice versa. The richer the people, the more successful the country. In it not uncommon that when a country progresses economically other important aspects, such as healthcare, education, international trade, social security and life-standard of citizens also progress.
	Despite economic value, health status also contributes measurement to decide the achievement of a country. The healthier the citizens, the more productive they are in doing their activities. As a result, they can fulfil their rudimentary needs well since they have the fitness to work and earn money. This condition also enables a country to spend less money in eradicating outbreak or epidemic and contribute more money to the social development, for instances, establishing more public infrastructures and developing entrepreneurship to help to cope with unemployed.
	Education is also considered as other measurements for national prosperity. In many developed countries, people who attain and can secure better job are those who have a higher level of education. Education can affect people’s ability to compete and maintain their job and wages. If individuals can secure their job, they will not be worry of being unemployment.
	From my point of view, none of these three factors, either education, economic or health, outweighs one another. They are equivalent in determining the prosperity of a nation and can affect the functions of each capacity.
	All in all, economic, education, and health status are important to create a successful country and these elements have balanced roles for pointing welfare to a nation. 
Essay 1245:
	It is obvious that economic growth is one indicator which is considered to assess the success of a nation because without adequate economic condition, the government of the state will not be able to manage and run its programs well and citizens will suffer. However, that factor will be meaningless if it is not supported by the other aspects such as education and health. For instance, Brazil, having good economic growth in the last century, is still struggling with the low rate of education and health care of its citizens, particularly in the northern region. This eventually means that the inhabitants in the northern part of Brazil are still poor and the government has not fully succeeded to prosper its people.
	Furthermore, a wealthy nation like Brazil still has a problem with the morality of its residents, reflected on the high crime rate in the country which will potentially endanger the national stability of Brazil. This means that the government has failed to educate its citizens. Therefore, morality should be taken into account as another factor to obtain success by the nation.
	In a nutshell, other than economic prosperity, there are the other indicators that should be considered in order to be a successful country such as education, health, and morality. However, personally, I put economic factor as the most important one because important aspects to improve the other factors (education, health, and morality) cannot be achieved well if a good economic condition of the nation has not been achieved yet.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1195-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-276-while-studying-abroad-brings-many-benefits-it-also-has-a-number-of-disadvantages",
Essay 1246:
	In the recent years, there has been a vast increase in the number of students going abroad to pursue their studies. While studying abroad appears to be an appealing option for many, it is argued that studying abroad does not come without a number of drawbacks. Apropos of the statement, I am in consummate accord with it.
	One of the advantages of studying abroad is that students will be allowed to learn to live independently as family and relatives are far away and will not be available to aid and abet them if problems arise. Thus, they will learn to settle the problems by themselves while at the same time growing as an independent individual. Furthermore, students studying abroad will be constantly exposed to a second language and hence, will be proficient in the language if given enough time. Also, it might serve as a useful ability for prospective careers in their future.
	However, some disadvantages that stem from studying abroad are not to be overlooked. For instance, without a grant of scholarship, students of less affluent families might deem the living cost and school fee too expensive comparing to studying in one’s local universities. Moreover, students who are not serious about pursuing their studies and are only interested in the excitement living abroad can offer them will have put in their money and invested their time ineffectively and fruitlessly.
	To conclude, I believe that studying abroad doesn't come without drawbacks. However, with enough effort put in and serious commitment, it will bring many benefits to individual students.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1194-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-275-some-people-think-that-cars-should-be-banned-from-large-cities",
Essay 1247:
	There is a dramatic increase in private transportation around the globe over the last few years. Increased wages, economic prosperity and depletion in vehicle prices made easy for people to have their own personal car. However, this has led to various detrimental issues including congestion, pollution and safety. For those reasons, I believe that limiting the number of cars in bigger cities could mitigate those problems. Completely banning cars in big cities is not a plausible solution as it is unrealistic, however, restricting the number of such private cars would be an effective solution indeed.
	Nowadays, traffic contributed a lot in widespread of pollution. Car smoke, traffic jams and loud horns of vehicles are few reasons that significantly affect the environment and people in many ways. People are more vulnerable to various diseases and many have serious health issues due to pollution. In order to tackle this issues, restriction on private car ownership should be imposed. Not allowing people to drive their cars in big cities is not possible while it is much reasonable to restrict the number of cars a family can own, the number of minimum passenger on each car while driving would be the two pragmatic solutions.
	Additionally, in order to combat with traffic congestion, new road infrastructure have been introduced by various nations that include deforestation to acquire more space to build new roads, modern bridges and pedestrian pathways. Those development works could destroy the natural habitat of various species that could lead towards the extinction of them from various countries. Nevertheless, prudent decisions should be taken to enhance the number of roads without doing any harm to the natural environment.
	On the other hand, personal vehicles are more convenient and safer than other means of transportation. This is not surprising that people often feel more comfortable and relaxed while driving their cars. Completely banning the use of private cars in cities would deprive people to travel freely and according to their own preference.
	To sum up, controlling and restricting vehicles in large cities would definitely play a pivotal role in improving people’s health and would also help in controlling factors that are the cause of deteriorating situation of the environment. But banning the private cars completely in big cities is not a pragmatic solution in my opinion.
Essay 1248:
	Two common problems usually faced by a big city - traffic jam and air pollution, which are caused by many factors. However, most people tend to blame a large number of private cars as the greatest contributing factor which leads to the some people’s opinion claiming that the cars must be prohibited in the town. Although this statement seems plausible, I totally disagree that this kind of vehicle should be banned from the metropolis.
	The cars are not only beneficial for the citizen as a user but also for the state, in increasing its income. If the existence of the cars in the large city is forbidden by the government, there will not be car trade in that town which consequently will reduce total sales of cars nationwide. This finally will decrease nation's earning because car companies will drop their production for that country and the tax revenue from the car sales will diminish automatically. Furthermore, this will also reduce annual car-tax revenue in which for some countries, this kind of tax is their main earning source.
	On the other hand, this will cause another problem, for the car owners in particular, in which the government should be involved to overcome this problem. By banning the use of cars in the big city, cars owned by the city inhabitants will be useless and eventually they must sell their cars because this can harm them financially. If we look at the large total number of cars must be sold and the fact that the owners do not want to sell their cars at a lower price, this might be a difficult problem to be solved.
	Finally, a huge budget must be allocated to improve the alternative vehicles in the city and many countries will not be able to eventually do it successfully. The car is considered as one of the most useful inventions ever and banning them is not a pragmatic solution. We should rather take alternative initiatives to reduce the traffic jam and air pollution in big cities.
	Personally, I strongly believe that prohibiting people to drive cars in big cities will generate some problems both for the state and the owners. Even though the cars contribute to the occurrence of traffic jam and air pollution in some cities, it must be the other ways to combat those problems without banning the existence of cars, such as creating underground transportation and green energies as a car fuel.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1193-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-274-people-these-days-work-harder-and-longer-hours-and-have-no-time-for-family",
Essay 1249:
	In this highly competitive world, people have been spending a significant amount of time at their workplaces. It is true that most of the working people do not have social and family lives due to their hectic life. In this essay, I would like to discuss various aspects of the topic and try to reach a conclusion according to my perspective.
	To commence with, in this globalised world, most of the companies and their workers have to face an international competition in the market which makes their work harder and tougher. To make it clear, it is evident that most of the international firms are technologically and ideally advanced so it has become necessary to work overtime with dedications to compete with those companies.
	Furthermore, nowadays, daily expenses of a family has been rising day-by-day, such as the money spent on groceries, petroleum and so on. In this context, it is hard for a man to run a family with a single job or regular working hours so they are forced to work more. More importantly, unemployment has resulted in minimising wages of most of the works. To exemplify, in India, a nurse's monthly salary is 100 dollar, it is impossible for them to live with this small amount and that’s why the nurse needs to work extra hours and even in days off to earn a bit more.
	On the other hand, the platform of family life is interaction, socialisation and communication. When family members do not have enough time to interact each other, there will form a communication gap among them and that ultimately affect family relation. Moreover, as most of the people in a society over work and when they do not have sufficient time for interaction and exchange of ideas. It is evident that, unless the co-operation of society, there will not be an effective development in society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1192-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-273-waste-disposal-problems-are-increasing-specially-in-urban-areas",
Essay 1250:
	Due to the rapid industrialisation throughout the 21st century, a lot of people have migrated to cities seeking for a better life. The drastic increase in the urban population engenders a series of issues. Waste management is one of the key problems faced by almost all cities across the globe. Both the governments and citizens have to take effective steps to minimise the trash produced every day in these cities.
	Firstly, governments of all countries need to relocate the industries which leave behind a myriad of byproducts to the countryside, either by limiting the license in cities or by providing subsidies. In addition to that, public waste management committee has to be in place, which would regularly check how the thrash is managed by the industries. For example, a few states in India are encouraging industries to set up their plant in remote areas by providing free land. Thus a major problem of waste management can be resolved.
	Secondly, the government has to ensure that efficient waste disposal mechanism is connected to every household. Each house needs to have an easy access to litter bins and they must be cleaned by the public body 3 to 4 times every day. Moreover, if any citizen violates this law by throwing the garbage in the public area, he or she should be penalised heavily. In the case of Singapore, every apartment has waste disposal area and which is cleaned thrice a day by the government. This mechanism makes the management of rubbish organised.  
	Citizens should understand that they will ultimately face the problems if the garbage is not properly taken care of. They should take some responsibility to keep their living place and neighbourhood clean. In some cases, they should take the wastage to the waste disposal centre for recycling. Again, recycling and reusing products could be an effective way to tackle this issue. The country like Japan has been very successful in recycling and reusing the products and that had helped them to reduce the problem they had with the excessive wastage their citizens produce.  Recyclable products should be promoted so that rubbish creation can be minimised. Special concessions have to be given in supermarkets to promote customers to bring their own environment-friendly bags instead of polythene ones. This can be achieved by promoting the awareness sessions in the social media websites like Facebook and government advertisements in televisions. Usage of recyclable ensures that waste can be minimised.
	In conclusion, the entire community has to take a lot of steps in tackling the waste management. Once the thrash is organised well, the human life expectancy is predicted to go up as we support a greener environment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1191-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-272-some-people-claim-that-there-are-different-ways-of-saving-energy",
Essay 1251:
	In today's modern world, non-renewable energy is still an essential part of life. Across the globe, electricity and gas are used by almost every house to big industries. Although I believe that energy wastage should be minimised, I refute that we should simply cut down the use of energy for the essential purposes based on a timetable. The base for my views would be personal and professional.
	From a professional perspective, electricity and gas are an invaluable resource to run a simple gadget like computers to more complex machines like cranes. For instance, if we plan to switch off electricity at our work area once in a week, definitely a majority of the people will be idle, as most of the companies run based on computers. Moreover, if we try to save the energy when it is really needed, precious time of the employees working on electronic devices will be wasted. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that energy is available during the work hours. We should research and invest in producing better energy source rather than cutting the power for a day in a week. The world has become very competitive and imposing a restriction on the working hours in office would simply reduce the productivity of a country.
	From a personal point of view, energy is mandatory to charge personal gadgets like mobile phones to stay connected with the world. For example, if there is no power and the battery charge of the mobile phone is almost finishing, then the mobile will be turned off. In addition to that, a switched off smartphone not only cuts off phone calls but also disconnects from social media as there is no internet connectivity. Thus, it is obvious that electricity should not be cut off or reduced based on a time table. In most of the major cities gas is used for cooking, hence not using it for a day would mean that we would need to buy foods from restaurants or fast food shops which are not only expensive but also harmful for health.
	In conclusion, by analysing how much essential is energy and gas in our day to day life, it is very much important that energy is available when required. As nonrenewable energy is precious, steps need to taken, so that they are not wasted. But not using it is not the proper way.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1190-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-271-some-people-prefer-to-spend-more-time-improving-their-careers",
Essay 1252:
	In the 21st century, time is more important than money. Utilisation of time is one of the key factors in this important aspect of life. There is a fundamental debate going between two mindsets of people. The first group is of the opinion that careers are more important than family and friends, others who refute this theory say that, family and friends should be given more priority than work and career. We will do a comparative analysis of both views before reaching a conclusion.
	Firstly, the people who give more weight to their jobs and careers tend to believe that improving their careers will automatically reflect positively in the lifestyle of their families and friends. For instance, a man who has a good career will be able to support his family in a much better way compared to the person who is earning very less amount of money. Also, he will be able to save enough amount of money in case of unforeseen circumstances due to which he loses his job. Consequently, the family will compromise on this time factor as they are enjoying a life with all facilities with bearing in mind that whatever a person is doing ultimately will be fruitful for his family & friends.
	Now, we will examine the other side of the story in which people who tend to believe that giving too much importance to their work and careers will affect negatively the mental and social behaviour of their family and friends. They will feel neglected and sidelined and consequently they can suffer from problems like depression etc. These types of people are ready to compromise their careers, salary, perks and benefits by allocating more time to their families and friends. The families are also happy to reduce their unnecessary expenses to relieve any sort of pressure on the person who is earning. Subsequently, he enjoys the life in the normal way.
	To recapitulate, both the mindsets have their own priorities and goals according to which they decide which one to prefer over other either family & friends over careers or vice versa. But I tend to believe that families and friends should be weighed more in comparison to career and work. It is recommended that this decision of time, career and money should be taken by mutual consensus by all stakeholders i.e. a person family and his friends.
Essay 1253:
	In the modern era, time is considered as the most precious commodity. While some people wish to devote their time enhancing their profession while others choose to spend it with their relatives and friends. As far as I am concerned, there are merits and demerits to both opinions as improving your careers helps provide for your family, on the other hand, it might drive you away from your relatives. We will further investigate this below.
	Firstly, some people are born ambitious and they want to be successful in their professional life, so they thrive to achieve more success which benefits their families as they are able to provide them with better quality life. For instance, a research conducted in the US suggests that children's who studying in top private schools have higher IQ and are more confident than the pupil studying in public schools.
	Secondly, individuals who strive to improve their careers are actually helping their employers and companies their work for to be more successful. For example, in healthcare, there are many employees in research and development departments who have helped their companies develop, test and launch different life-saving drugs thus, enabling their companies to be successful.
	On the contrary, some people are too busy in their work and are unable to give quality time to their families and friends which might alienate them. An illustration of this would be, research conducted in the UK suggests that children whose parents are more involved in their life, live a happier and healthier life then children's without parents or if their parents are unable to give them time.
	In conclusion, many people may disagree with me; it appears that both profession and relatives are important parts of an individual's life. Hence, a balance has to be struck in order to be maintained and become successful in both of these relations.
Essay 1254:
	People have different priorities in life, as some choose to focus more on their works while others prefer to have more time with their family and relatives. The following essay will discuss both opinions, but I personally feel that we should have a balanced view regarding the discussion.  
	On the one hand, some people choose to spend more times in career development. These people believe that career would be the most important aspect of their life, as a successful career would change their life. They would be able to earn handsome money, drive a luxurious car, live a big house, travel overseas or wear fancy clothes. Therefore they choose to focus more on their career improvement. One of the ways would be by working longer and more dedicatedly than what an average employee would do. Then, they also would take additional courses and training which correlate to their work during the night or in the weekend. As a consequence, they do not have time for themselves and for their family and friends as well.  
	On the other hand, other groups of people believe that family, relatives and friends are more important than works. They believe that spending more times with the family would have a positive effect on children's mental development. They also believe that that people should be close to relatives and neighbours, as they are the first one who will help during financial difficulties or natural disasters. Consequently, many of these people cannot improve their careers, because they do not want to spend some of their times for self-development.  
	In my opinion, I personally believe that people should have a balanced life. It means that people must develop their potential and should also have targets and ambitions in their career life, but they should not sacrifice the socialisation time as well. People should learn more about time management such as setting priorities at work, therefore they could work more effective and efficient. As a result, they do not have to work overtime and they could some spend some time with their family and friends.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1189-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-270-responsible-tourism-is-impossible-to-implement-in-reality",
Essay 1255:
	Tourism is a unique human activity, experienced by millions of people worldwide every year. As people differ in their attitude towards almost everything in life, the same applies also to tourism; where some treat tourism globally as the focus of their act without scrutinising the other related activities pertaining to it. Hence, the term 'responsible tourism" emerged; in order to pay a sufficient attention of the tourist to the local cultural values of the destination country, and – more globally – to the environment. From my point of view, tourism must be labelled as a "responsible activity"; even if it is mandatory to issue as many local and international legislations to make it so.
	While making tourism, should the tourist carry his culture with him to the foreign country? Obviously, the answer is "No". If the tourist insists on doing this, he will sure subject himself to great dangers especially in communities with intolerant local citizens. One of the best examples of this is the "Thump Up" sign which is greatly practised in many countries; where this sign is USA means "OK or very good"; while it is considered as very crude and impolite in Greece (which is a famous touristic destination). Thus, it is crucial to teach the tourists a list of common practices that they must refrain from doing, explaining the reasons behind this.  
	When it comes to the environment, it is indeed very unfortunate to find that the touristic areas are those with the greatest pollution and litter output! A few years ago, it was really surprising that an international campaign of volunteers aimed to clean the Himalayas from the trash left by the climbers.
	In conclusion, tourism should be dealt with in the same way as freedom; that it must be "responsible", respecting both the local cultural and environmental values of each society.
Essay 1256:
	In the twenty-first century, we are constantly confronted with the issue of 'responsible tourism' which is a current trend in front of the tourism that focuses mainly on the traditions and environment on newspaper. Some people, nevertheless, are if the opinion that it is nearly impossible to be implemented in this modern world. This essay will examine both sides of the argument before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	Admittedly, 'responsible tourism' is difficult to be promoted in every country around the globe. It is, possibly, due to the reason that tourists come from everywhere of the world and some of them may not be well-educated which cause them to behave badly when they visit a new country. For example, I have seen some foreign tourists who visited my country do not take care of the Mother Nature and they plucked flowers along the way to a museum. By doing so, their naive acts can destroy the beautiful scenery of a specific tourist spot.
	However, I am not convinced by others that the 'responsible tourism' can never possible to be implemented owing to several reasons. To begin, tour guides have the obligations to advise or give information to the tourists about the local culture. It is the key for the tourists, especially those from overseas to respect the cultures and traditions of the locals. It is also given them an opportunity to know about the cultures of other countries so as to broaden their views. It is crucial for individual to learn the cultures of other races around the world in order to avoid culture shock and be more open-minded. In addition, government, undoubtedly, plays an indispensable role in ensuring the 'responsible tourism' runs smoothly. They can, for instance, to organise more campaigns with the aim to promote the local culture and environment to both the local and foreign tourists. More noticeable should be placed in every corner of the tourist attractions to encourage the tourists to keep the place clean as it is the most effective and direct way to take care of the environment.
	In conclusion, I strongly disagree with the idea that 'responsible tourism' is impossible to implement as they are a handful of useful preventive measures that the individuals and government can take to promote this kind of tourism without causing any harm to the local cultures and environment.
Essay 1257:
	All around the world, tourism is losing its glitter, due to the lack of responsibility by the government, tourists and local people. Some people consider taking responsibility in tourism by each individual is essential for the better environment, preserving cultures and improving the economy, whereas others think, this cannot be achieved in reality. In my opinion, tourism responsibility is required for better future of the world and this can be achieved with proper implementation.
	People travel to different places but never show any attention or responsibility towards its improvement. To make this world a better place to live in, one should take it as one’s responsibility. First of all, the government should take a step, releasing more funds towards tourism and for providing much security. For instance, we find filthy guest houses, restrooms and no cleaning of surrounding places. People travel to enjoy the beauty of nature, but if they find this kind of dirty places, their enjoyment which lead to a bad memory. Even, local people and tourists who travel should obey the guidelines and policy of tourism for a better world.
	However, there are some people who think when it comes to implementation of this; it is like a day dream which cannot come into reality. It is difficult for poor and developing countries to utilise more funds towards tourism. On the other hand, it is difficult to provide security and neatness at tourist spots unless every tourist shows attention as his responsibility. For instance, if there are sign boards which shows ‘please use right direction, danger at left direction’, they use only left and if there are any dustbins with ‘please use me’ , they do not use them at all. Thus it is very difficult to make it into reality.
	In conclusion, better tourism can be achieved only if every individual takes the responsibility towards tourism. One should think, how much one is contributing, instead of just arguing and blaming the government. But the government should take the first step in achieving this. With this, not only it increases blissfulness of tourists but also increases economy of the country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1188-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-269-students-who-go-directly-from-school-to-university-benefit-less",
Essay 1258:
	It is believed that young people who directly continue their study in an undergraduate course get less benefit and make fewer contributions to their program of study, compare to students who already have job experiences or travelled to another area to gain experiences in the workplace before they continue their university studies. With regard to the statement, I personally agree with it and the following essay will discuss in details. 
	Some high school graduates choose to enter the university directly after they have finished their secondary school studies, and it is believed that they have some weak points. As they lack the real-world experiences, they prefer not to actively responses to the tutor's lecture. Most of them would accept all of the lecturers' discussions, though tutors could mislead with their presentations. Besides that, although these students might get good academic results, it would not guarantee that they would perform well in their workplaces. They only knew about theories that underlie behind their field of study, whereas in the real world, sometimes the theory contradict to the practice.
	On the other hand, there are students who took several years trip to another place to gain cultural experiences or take some jobs to get work experiences, before they continue their undergraduate studies. Many people think that these valuable experiences will be positively impacted to their further studies. As they have gained real world experiences in their life, they could give some feedbacks, responses and shares their experiences in the classroom, which would make the atmosphere of the class, would be alive and positive. Besides that, during their study, they could also learn how to integrate and connect the theory with their previous work experiences. 
	In conclusion, high school graduates have their own choices after they have finished high school. Some of them prefer to continue to the university study, while others choose to work for several years or take a trip to another area before they continue their higher study. In my opinion, I do believe that students who have had real world experiences give more significant contributions to their class and get more benefits from the study, than those who directly continue their further study.
Essay 1259:
	The order and pattern of students' education are always a matter of discussion and debate all over the world. Though few people support direct continuing education from school to the university, I strongly hold the view that the part-time jobs and expedition journeys, after the schooling, positively contribute to the university education to a great extent.
	One of the obvious reasons is that part time job assists to resolve financial issues of university education. To be more precise, the cost of higher education, which is a tough nut to crack for many students can be resolved to some extent by the wages and salaries of job settings. In Europe and America, students enjoy sabbatical leave and make their graduation and post-graduation study as a piece of cake is the best epitome.
	Another reason to support my view is that the travelling helps immensely to discover the incredible world. In other words, students can get more practical knowledge which is necessary to get academic excellence not only in History and Biological sciences but also in all other subjects. Actions speak louder than words. Practical experience is completely different from bookish knowledge, acquired by long journeys, positively influences for academic improvement and to tackle complex issues of future life episodes of the students. Moreover, this is an excellent opportunity to pupils to understand the life is not just a cake walk.
	Ironically, an army of people claims that this order of education is a waste of time. Students need to get graduation as early as possible to serve society. Perhaps it may be true but we cannot deny that Rome was not built in a day. Necessary time consumption is an integral part of excellent education.
	To crown it all, both travelling and have some work experience, especially before university term, positively contribute to personal and economic aspects of the student life and personal life.
Essay 1260:
	Higher education is the precursor to success in today's competitive world. Thus, every individual want to have a professional degree after schooling. After higher secondary, whether one should directly go to a university, or he/she should take a break before higher education, has always sparked a highly intense debate. In my opinion, a break is very much important for professional growth, at the same time it also helps in increasing focus at studies.
	Firstly, it is very apparent that in order to reduce training cost, companies nowadays prefer skilled professional rather than a mere fresher. Thus, break in studies and investing the same time for gaining a relevant experience, will make the students prepared for the professional challenges. For instance, the Indian IT giant "Infosys", which annually fire almost 20% of fresher hired by them. This number can be highly reduced if the employees are already trained for the job. Hence, it can be easily stated that the gap-year taken by students, when invested for proper training, will help them in future.
	Moreover, after 12-14 years of rigorous studying, a gap-year would act as a refresher for the students. They can plan their future studies in the meantime. Talking about my personal experience; my elder brother after his 12th standard in science, was fully prepared to have an honours degree in Mathematics, as Math was the subject which had always excited him. But, after having one-year training in an IT company, he realised the scope in IT field. The professional growth in IT was exponential as compared to a linear growth in the field of Math. Thus, after rejoining his studies he went for an Engineering degree in "Computer Science", which catalysed his career growth. Today, he is well settled, and is drawing a handsome salary! Now, after stating this we can easily say that the gap-year can work wonders, with respect to the decision making of a student.
	After analysing the above points, we are in a position to safely conclude that, gap-year is something which every student should opt for. This will be helpful in terms of their professional growth and plans for their future. It is also believed that in the coming future, more and more students will take a break from studies before joining the university and will invest that gap for getting themselves trained.
Essay 1261:
	Experience is the best teacher, so goes an age old saying. Experience earned from work or from a foreign travel is a valuable asset to own, for a person. I strongly believe that a student who does not have work experience after school and has completed university reaps less benefit in the real world compared to the student who does.
	Today the corporates are not only seeking a graduation or post-graduation degree in their employees but also seeking relevant work experience to go with it. When an organisation hires an experienced ‘market ready’ professional, it saves a lot of time and money in training the employee. Thus, often during a recruitment drive, candidates who have no prior work experience end up as also-rans.
	Based on the work experience after school, a student can choose the domain of specialisation in which he wants to attend the university. On the contrary, a student entering the university directly after school generally tends to go with the herd while choosing the courses or domain at the university. A few months in the course, the student may not find it interesting but has no option to go back. In fact, the student may be compelled to find a job and pursue a career in the same field which may lead to the student not enjoying the work he does.
	In conclusion, considering the above points, I can say with conviction that it is better to work for a few years and then enter a university than to directly attend university after school. Apart from the monetary benefits, this approach also has benefits like individual growth and development.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1187-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-268-working-from-home-should-be-encouraged-as-it-is-good-for-workers-and-employees",
Essay 1262:
	There are many high-end computers and modems available in the market using which we can set up the same type of environment as office and can have a better privilege to work from home. I do not think that's a good practice to work for office staying at home. It affects the work in various mean and spoils work culture of an office.
	Many companies follow a dress code for employees and ask them to maintain 9 to 5 job timing. Being at home they need not bother about their dress code and the timings, but usually, people do not maintain a proper discipline to work, sometimes they are very late to send a response to their emails just because they start accomplishing their personal work in mid of office time without informing their co-workers. Though, they show their status as available but actually they remain busy in taking a nap sometimes or doing their household work hence, they cannot be more productive for their employer being at home.
	Yet at the response of above working from home, employees would not be able to get the full update of work via email which causes rework sometimes. Moreover, they cannot visit their team member in case of delay to achieve targets and meet deadlines in time.
	Therefore, work from home option is good in some scenarios like health issues with you or your family members or some very important work where your presence is required and you are not supposed to take leave etc. We should not misuse the facilities and privileges given to us, which can bring problems and put us in soup. We should always beware of the wrong move.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1186-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-267-people-s-lives-are-becoming-increasingly-stressful",
Essay 1263:
	Nowadays, developing of technology has created more stressful living conditions to humans. I believe that overpopulation and expenditure factors are two leading reasons for that, and some practical solutions should be implemented to tackle them.
	Obviously, stress has been intensified globally due to two important reasons. The one is increasing the density of population globally. Birth rates have fundamentally grown, especially in cities, during last century, making more stressful situations to dwellers. For example, in India and China, their population have escalated far considerably since last three decades, reaching almost half of total world’s population. As a result, inhabitants are annoyed more by traffic jams or noise pollution coming from vehicles. To reduce this growth, governments and organisations should consider more practical methods to slow the escalation of the population on Earth via popularising the contraceptive methods among couples or encouraging urban inhabitants to move and live in suburb areas.
	Another reason is the enhancement of living spending. Individuals have to work longer hours than the past to be able to afford their regular expenses, including Internet bill, house mortgage or car lease; however, before people did not have to pay these bills. In addition, citizens used to paid more for their journeys than the past. Accessing to more low-cost airlines or resorts, individuals are motivated to spend more on them annually; therefore, they have to work longer hours and have more stressful lifestyles to pay them. To tackle this issue, the related authorities are better to consider more restrictions on workloads, which have been on of leading reasons for having a more anxious living condition.
	In conclusion, anxiety has been raised notably. Inclining the density of population and growing of expenditures are two important reasons for that, and administrations should control them and subside people’s stress. Had governments limited these two factors, the level of stress would have been reduced far considerably.
Essay 1264:
	These days stress is a very common problem on people’s lives. There are several reasons or causes of why people have more stress these days. But unfortunately, there are not many ways to solve this problem. In my opinion, 80% of stress is caused by work or economic situation, but these two are not the only reasons, study, family problems or relationship are some of the possibilities of having stress.
	Why is work one of the reasons? In many aspects some people are not comfortable in their jobs; that can be related to the relationship with their boss, workmates, the environment of office or the kind of job they have to do there. Some others have excessive works or some others do not have a job at all, but all of these make feel people tired, bored and in some other cases worried and finally take the people to feel so stressful. The economic situations have an important role on the stress reasons; for example, people without work, people with a big family and small salary are always in stress because of the economic reason. Study is one of the popular reasons among the students of schools and universities. Some of their problems are excessive homework, relation with teachers and classmates, exams etc.
	But no matter what is the cause of the stress, it can be dangerous depending on the stress level one has. Some people get sick and the symptom can be different depending on the person.
Essay 1265:
	It is true that life has become miserable and more painful to live in today's competitive world. The trend to lead a normal life has become a nightmare in most part of the Globe. The impacts have various reasons and change in lifestyle. Let's discuss in detail.
	Firstly the lifestyle has been evolved to different levels, the rapid growth in technology and to collaborate with the latest trend people's workability is challenged. Generally, most of them believe that the lifestyle and the economy have been moved towards high heights. Technology has been revealed the opportunity and to cater the people's needs to upgrade themselves. Moreover, it has been observed that the economy and lifestyle in urban also drastically varied. For example, all individual thinks to prevail all opportunities and to enjoy each situation. These makes competitive in all ways. Even in education, the trend is been varied and maintained.
	In addition to that, there is infinite opportunity being evolved, in most of the developing countries there are lots of opportunity in Research and infrastructure sectors. Pupil believes that the more they work they more the will be paid, so they are ready to compromise the health and food for future life. In most of the Asian countries, people not only concentrated in earning more money for their day-to-day life, perhaps they earn to buy properties, which obvious being stressful.
	As a preventive measure, people can plan their work in a systematic way and spend more time with family. Every individual needs to take care of own selves. In most of the western countries, people do work 5 days in a week and left over will not be entertained for official work. They strictly prohibit and spend their time with family, friends & outings etc. These need to be alerted to people living more stressful life. the government can take some initiative and awareness program to familiarise the trends of leading a normal life, perhaps a protocol can be set by introducing the program's which can show the on and off's of living a stressful life, this could make some awareness between people and will start taking some initiative steps.
	In conclusion, the protocol to lead a normal life or stressful is completely dependent on each individual, every needs to think whatever is there it is more than enough, need to run behind continuously for some things which will impact on life. It is an opportunity for each individual to change their mindset and the self-satisfactory level, which could make them in moving to the right path to lead a normal and meaningful life, which will not trouble own self or environment.
Essay 1266:
	These days, as the human has stepped on the path to transcendence, people are competing to be better every day. As the time goes by, many of us are tend to be afflicted by stressful feeling. Actually, there are some reasons behind this problem. In this essay, I will explain the reasons why it can happen and try to propose some solutions to tackle this matter.
	As regard the first, the reason why people are having stressful life is because of their lifestyle. Every individual tends to fulfil their need and desire. They earn money as much as they can and spent almost along the day for work. However, people only need a short time to spend their money for buying everything that they want. This phenomenon can cause stress among people. Secondly, stressfulness can happen because of the competitive ambience among each individual. People are competing to look perfect every time. In every facet of our life, people like to compete. For instance, they compete in jobs, study, finance, appearance, and on the other aspects of our life. However, the fact is not all the people are able to fulfil their need as their wish. Only the rich and wealthy people can do that. Therefore, it can raise stressfulness. These days people needs to outperform others in the study, job and in other social affairs and these are few of the main reasons for the increased stress and pressure among us. The technological advancement has made our life easier in one hand and at the same time, this is another reason for the pressured life for many.   
	In conclusion, positive life, satisfaction and balanced life can reduce the stress we have to a great extent. As competition is one of the main reasons for increased stress nowadays, we should not rival others in every aspect. The positive mentality and happy family bonding can help us achieving a life with less stress. 
Essay 1267:
	It is believed that lives are getting more stressful as days pass by. This essay will discuss its causes as well as measures that can be employed to alleviate this problem.
	One reason why lives seem to cause more frustration is that work is even more demanding nowadays. People might be required to work longer hours. Not to mention that technology has made it increasingly harder for people to stop thinking about their jobs even when they are at home. As such, they might not have enough time to relax properly. Secondly, both spouses are more likely to be working due to higher living costs. This means that they have to juggle their careers with household chores, making them busier than ever. Unfortunately, they might struggle to do both works and in turn, put more strain on them.
	It is therefore, crucial for people to take some actions to counter stress. Firstly, they should take a day off at least once a week to unwind. This is to ensure that their stress level can be somewhat lowered. After all, constant strain on the body and mind might eventually take its toll on people's wellbeing. Furthermore, they should pursue their hobbies no matter how busy they are. This is because hobbies are proven to be effective in combatting stress and providing relief from mundane lives. Thus, they are likely to recharge their energy and refresh their mind by doing their favourite pastimes. For example, listening to music is considered to have the benefit of reducing stress.
	In conclusion, there are two reasons as to why lives seem to be increasingly stressful. Even so, there are some means of combatting this issue to live a happier and stress-free life.
Essay 1268:
	The word has changed, there has been evolution and transformation in every aspect of the universe, gone are the days when people were self-sufficient, now everyone wants more and more and this attitude makes people more stressful.
	Day and day out people have become competitive, they are longing for better and better than good and in this journey, people are inducing themselves to stresses.
	There were days when people used to be active and enjoy their life by spending time with their families but nowadays people give less time to their families rather they spend their times on the invention of a better lifestyle. For instance, the technology which is prevailing in the present times made a huge impact on a person’s lifestyle .people are pertinently stressed due to the job burdens to deliver their best and to stand in the race.
	If an employee aims for a good achievement, his employer aims for a better and in this juncture, people are imparting their time to get better out of them and this even increases undue stresses. They being stressful show cast their stress on their family members which in turn makes the whole family live a stressful life.
	In earlier days, when technology was limited people were not under stress, though stressed their stress was limited, if we see the reason behind stress as technology, we can illustrate using an example of mobile phones. Mobile phones convey a person's mobility and liable to respond to the incoming call at any time. But if the mobile phones were not there, there is a limited chance that the person should respond.
	And the other reason we see that indicative changes in the family bonds are also causing stresses, people, in earlier days are more cordial and are less stressed compared to the present time. One can overcome stress in their life when they distance themselves from the competitive world, I do not comprehend that man should not be competitive, he should be competitive but should also be self-sufficient. Secondly, he should not take all the burdens on his head which he cannot solve it, he should be a “let it go” attitude that he could overpower the stress.
	Thirdly stress can be avoided by culturing the body with meditation, yoga, physical workouts, travelling, recreational activities and apart from these he can spend time with family and hear soothing music too. Finally, a change in one’s attitude is the need of the hour for a person to be stress-free if he is always self-sufficient and does not panic to situations. A person is successful if he is stress-free. This is the ultimate success a person needs right now.
Essay 1269:
	Today, human's lifestyle has become more complicated than ever before. A variety of factors has been implicated for this, however, I believe that traffic congestion and job competition are two leading reasons, and the government should consider two solutions to tackle them.
	To begin with, traffic jam has intensified the level of stress in cities. Increasing the number of vehicles in urban, the level of noise pollution has been increased fundamentally. In this case, in Tehran, the capital city of Iran, the number of private cars has doubled each two years since last decade, reaching over five million vehicles and leading the citizens to be annoyed more by loud noises created by them. To address this issue, governments should encourage dwellers to use safer vehicles, including bicycles, instead of private cars, reducing the bad traffic, especially in the central areas of cities.
	Another factor is that the level of competition between people has considerably been increased. Definitely, to find their favourable jobs, applicants have to achieve more qualifications and experience than the past. They have to study longer years to achieve the needed certifications to apply and surpass other rivals. For instance, now an electric engineer should be familiar with not only computer software, but with new communication systems; therefore, they have to study longer time at college or university, even nearly four years, to obtain the required certification. As a result, they will have a more stressful life to pass exams or pay tuitions. To solve it, administrations should help inhabitants financially more to be able to pay tuition with less stress, and create more job positions to subside the level of competition between them.
	In conclusion, traffic and job competition are two leading reasons that have caused individuals to have more challenging in their life. I think state authorities should consider some practical plans which encourage people to use less their private cars and assist them to be able to have less anxiety during their study or searching for jobs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1185-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-266-time-and-money-spent-on-music-classes-in-schools-are-not-necessary",
Essay 1270:
	The music industry has become widespread and prevailing day-by-day as adults have the awareness to music since their school. But some people have controversial opinion and emphasis that school budget and time should only fix for science and computer subject instead of music. I accord to this argument as it is a prerequisite of time. This essay will analyse the both sides of view.
	To begin with, as this is the age of science and technology and our planet requires more exposure to nature for making life more valid and convenient on it. This goal can only be achieved if we have sufficient scientists, astronomers and sea divers etc.
	Further, students are the future of any nation. By having more science and information technology pupil at a school, there will be adequate researchers and engineers in upcoming days alternatively. Hence, there is a need to build more research and computer labs furnished with advanced equipment in schools.
	Moreover, the world has been contracted just because of development in information technology. If children will have easy access to internet and Microsoft software since their childhood, they will indeed be the Bill Gates of the future. For instance, Arfa Karim (Late) became the youngest Microsoft certified professional at the age of nine. She made her nation proud by getting a prize of performance and the invitation from Bill Gates to visit Microsoft headquarter in the United State. In contrast, music has its own place in the empowerment of a region. Some students, who have extraordinary talent in music, may become well- known musicians and directors in future.
	To sum up, although science and technology are inevitable for the world but there should always be space for students to learn according to their curiosity.
Essay 1271:
	It is true that some education systems have different outlines for teaching. Some believe that governments are better to pay attention to music lessons; however, others, myself included, agree that scientific courses could be more valuable.
	On the one hand, some individuals agree that music lessons taught in schools can assist pupils to become more creative. In this way, those who are graduated from a music college will be able to surpass other rivals applied for the dental course in university. The reason beyond this is that this group will be more prosperous in practical lessons, which are numerously taught in the dental universities. In addition, they will achieve more in some manual tasks. Had a normal student learned piano in childhood, he or she would have had a better control on their hands than the normal ones, helping them to react faster. As a result, this group of students will become more creative practically.
	On the other hand, learning technical subjects can be more beneficial to students, and I believe that its advantages outweigh the benefits gained from music lessons. In this case, they can defeat other competitors because they higher scientific backgrounds learned before entering the university. Being familiar with computer software, students will be able to understand more deeply the related details taught in the university. Besides, doctors will have more conceptual learning when they were having learned basics of medicine. Personally, if I had not had sufficient knowledge about human physiology learnt in high school, I would not have succeeded in medicine.
	In conclusion, music lessons are valued in some education systems. However, scientific subjects could be more important practically because they can assist scholars to achieve their goals during the higher level of education.
Essay 1272:
	There is a general belief that music subject in school does not add any value to the children’s education. As an alternative, the time and money should be spent on more important subjects, for example, science and IT.  Although there are arguments on both sides, I strongly agree that music should be banned from the school program.
	The school program is getting more difficult and children need to cope with all new requirements and practice a lot in order to be able to have good marks. For example, in the past children were required only to read and they were asked only basic math to be able to solve. However, the level of difficulty modern students are required to learn is significantly higher. For this reason, music should be removed from school curriculum and children should not waste their time and parents money on it.
	The next point that needs to be taken into consideration is that music is an essential subject only for children who have a special talent on it. In this case, those with talent could be educated in music school but not in state general school. For instance, every city has at least three music schools where children could be taught various music subjects such as the history of music, compositors, how to play on a guitar or a violin.
	To sum up, it is evident that music subject should not be included in school curriculum due to the necessity to spend more time and money on practice with more useful subjects like science and IT.  I firmly believe that those who wish to learn music should study it in the music schools and do not waste time and money in ordinary school.
Essay 1273:
	Child education & their curriculum is always a matter of controversy, especially among parents. Though some people are against to spend a great deal of money and other resources for music classes in school, I hold the view that this is not a waste of time and money if school curriculum and syllabus are arranged wisely.
	One obvious reason to support my view is that this is a great opportunity to identify people's hidden talents in music and playing music instruments. Many students have a good deal of extra talents along with academic excellence in these days. This extra talent identification and promotion would be helpful not only for the individual but also for the whole society in various ways. Apart from that, music classes are stepping stone of many music maestros and professional singers in these days. For instance, renowned musician Muhammed Shafi strongly mentioned in his biography that the school music classes remoulded his career as a professional singer.
	Another justification to support my opinion is that the music classes immensely help to reduce tension and stress which occurs while the study of complex subjects. To be more precise, students feel relaxation while attending music classes in the midst of Mathematics and Science classes. Besides, these refreshments enhance the concentration in other subjects in a great extent. On top of that, students can get academic excellence. To cite an example, recent research has doubtlessly proven that the music tremendously enhances the brain activities, especially concentrations.
	Some others argue that the science and computer subject allocation must be increased instead of music classes. They argue that these subjects are playing leading role in the contemporary world. Perhaps it may be true, but we cannot deny that this is a great opportunity to identify and promote the future singers, who also are the major part of our society.
	Taking everything into consideration, wise allocation of each subject, including music, in the curriculum will countlessly contribute to school children's overall development.
Essay 1274:
	Gone are the days when schools were only meant for study. Now children have a wide variety of additional classes available in schools such as music. Undeniably, some people believe that these activities serve no useful purpose, but I fully dissent with this argument.
	The very first reason for this lack of consensus is that they are the boon for unprivileged children. Almost everywhere there are children from such section of society, which cannot afford such pleasures outside school premises due to the associated cost. Take an example of wards of lower income demographics in developing nations; they hardly have money to shell out for these kinds of programs. Therefore, such facilities will help them pursue their aspirations in music, sports etcetera.
	Another factor that favours such extra activities is that they help pupils to relax. They already have so much to combat in their curriculum in order to stay ahead in this world of cut-throat competition that it will be wrong to snatch this little time from them for studying same subjects like computers and science again. It has been proven by research that students perform better if they are allowed to follow their passion side by side.
	In crux, I would say that devoting time to music, sports and so on in schools cannot be called sheer wastage of times since it can help the children of poor citizens to follow their desire to learn something apart from studies. Moreover, they provide a great relief to all the students from the monotonous schedule of studies.
Essay 1275:
	In today’s modern world, parents are sending their children to attend a variety of classes including music, science and computer classes. Among these three classes, some people assert that more time should be allocated to join the science and computer classes instead of music class which I strongly agree.
	In these times of austerity, children are facing problems in their academic and it is one of the reasons why children are advisable to learn a more useful subject like science. Learning science subjects enable children to think from different perspectives and hence they may become more knowledgeable. It is proven that when children who learn science can actually deal with difficulties than any other students using scientific theories they learnt in school. Besides, learning science is the stepping stone to achieve a higher goal. It is considerably significant for children who want to be a doctor or scientist and they are the ones who more likely to contribute more than a musician to the societies.
	On the other hand, learning computers rather than music benefits children more both in their academic performance and their future career as well. It is undeniable that computer plays an indispensable role in every field around the globe at present. Many of the companies these days, thus, sponsor their employees to join the basic computer classes so that they can handle most of the tasks in their workplace. In the days to come, the employers may expect every interviewer to master this skill following the continual development of technology. Hence, it is crucial for every child nowadays to learn computers so that are familiar with the function of computers and becomes computer-literate.
	In conclusion, learning more important subjects like science and computers are more beneficial in comparison to music as they will help the children to become successful and brings glories to our nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1184-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-265-we-are-seeing-a-significant-increase-in-online-shopping-nowadays",
Essay 1276:
	With the technological advancement and widespread use of computers, smartphones and other hand-held computer devices, people are doing online shopping nowadays more than ever. More store owners are going online with their products and because of the convenient shopping mechanism, customers are opting to this new trends. The advantage of this online shopping facility is huge and there are some drawbacks as well.
	To mention the advantages, we have to consider the conveniences of both merchant and shoppers. Merchants can run their shops 24/7 and without any utility bill to be paid, employee salary is not required and they can reach to a whole new segment of customers. Online shopping sites like e-bay & Amazon have more than several millions of online customers and these two websites can be two great examples of online business potentials. The merchants can reach to the new and potential shoppers with their online offerings beside their physical stores. This is indeed a great prospect for the business owners to expand the business. In fact, going online is no longer an option it has become a must in today’s world.
	From the customers’ point of view, online shopping saves their time and money. They no longer have to go to the shops, accept the hassle and spend more to purchase their necessary products. Nowadays all they have to do is visit online shops from their computers or phones compare products and pay online. That’s it! And the quick delivery system would ensure the delivery of the ordered products to the shopper’s doorstep. This is a comprehensive lifestyle improvement for the online shoppers. They can spend more time at home with family members than spending time in marketplaces. They do not need to carry cash and that’s a better safety in terms of payment towards the purchases.
	Among the disadvantages, the first and foremost is the inability of touching and feeling the product before purchasing. An online shopper cannot touch the product and judge the quality of it before making the final decision or purchasing. They have to rely on the images and description of the products and that might often lead to dissatisfactions of the customers. The second threatening issue is the online theft and credit card information hacking that might become an alarming issue soon.
	In conclusion, the advantages outweigh the disadvantages and with time the online shopping would be the primary mode of shopping for us.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1183-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-264-what-do-you-think-are-the-benefits-of-going-away-on-holidays",
Essay 1277:
	Some people believe that the best holiday is when individuals relaxing at home, laying in their beds and watching TV or doing things that they usually cannot do because of lack of their time. However, I firmly believe that the most fabulous holiday is to go outside of people’s usual life and enjoy new experiences. This essay will discuss the advantages of spending holidays outside their homes.
	The first advantage of spending holiday outside people’s usual routine is that individuals will have new experiences and as a result, new positive emotions and feelings will emerge. For example, people can go to visit different countries such as France where they can visit Louvre or Eiffel Tower. There is no doubt that after visiting such places individuals will have an enormously positive energy for a long time.
	The second benefit that needs to be taken into consideration is that people can meet different people whom they did not know before and have a great conversation. For example, when individual goes outside even near the river for a camping there is a greater chance of meeting new person rather than staying at home. Therefore, individuals can communicate to each other, share their food, exchange their life experience and stories. For this reason, holidays outside people’s day-to-day routine can benefit persons in a much more positive way than spend holidays at home.
	To sum up, it is evident that there are different ways of spending holidays but the best way is to go away from people’s usual lifestyle. Holidays outside could benefit people in a greater way rather than staying at home.
Essay 1278:
	Since past years, holidays are looking forward to by many people. Whether it is going away from home or just staying at home depending on how a person perceives which one is ideal. It is believed that having a holiday vacation gives us many benefits. These will be proven by looking at how learning different cultures and acquiring a relaxing and peaceful body and mind.
	Firstly, knowledge about different cultures will certainly an advantage for us. For example, during my summer vacation last year, I went to Singapore, and there I learned to speak Mandarin, their major language, in just a small amount of time. I also have tasted their Singaporean cuisine such SG's Sashimi meal which I think a very different to Filipino foods. Thus, I become more knowledgeable about their culture which really benefited me.
	Another benefit is that a holiday can make our body and mind relaxed and peaceful. For instance, in Singapore where I spent my summer vacation, I saw the clean and green environment of the Pasiris Garden which gave me fresh air that was so relaxing. I also saw the beauty of the Marina Bay Sands and its surrounding water that was so peaceful. Thus, those new locations have given me peace and healthy mind. This shows how having a vacation is such an advantage to me.
	In conclusion, vacations make us more culturally knowledgeable and give us a healthy and peaceful mind. These benefited us a lot. But an ideal holiday is not always travelling away from home, perhaps we can get all these advantages by just staying at home.
Essay 1279:
	Many people believe that the concept of a perfect holiday is by going on a vacation to country areas or staying in a resort and getting away from routine activities. However, there are others who choose to stay at their house and do some personal tasks that they have not done yet. The following essay will discuss the advantages of taking a trip during the holiday period in details.
	To begin with, it is a fact that working competition in big cities such as in New York, Tokyo or London is getting tougher these days. Therefore workloads and work pressures are getting more intense nowadays and have increased the stress level of many employees. Many of these people feel depressed, hopeless and burnt out with their daily routine activities and that have negatively impacted to their work performance and individual's life as well.  
	For a number of reasons, it is believed that the best way to release stress is by taking some leisure activities. Firstly, by taking a trip to the mountain areas, people could get away from the noise, distraction and pollution that they must face daily. They could do some relaxation and meditation activities in these places, which could help them in releasing their stress. Secondly, by taking a vacation to the countryside or to some resorts, people could have some quality time with their families. Lastly, taking a trip to new areas will enrich people's experiences, as they will learn new cultures, new languages and new foods.
	In conclusion, it is believed that people should take a trip to a new area or go to some scenery places during their holiday period. Going to some tourist destination places such as the mountain areas, or the beach bring a lot of benefits for mankind since it could help them in releasing their stress level and they could have some quality time with their families.
Essay 1280:
	Nowadays in this busy world where everybody is busy with something, schools, jobs, business, etc., finding some free days to relax and going to holidays is like drinking a cold glass of water when you are dying of thirst in a desert. Our body and brain need to relax once in a while in order to work and function properly and non-stop working can be detrimental to them. Some people prefer to stay at home and do their overdue tasks, while others like to get out of their daily routines and go away and set theirs mind free from daily concerns. Which one is the best one?
	When you go away your brain gets the opportunity to think about something else than what it had done all the time. You can relax and set your mind free, listen to music and enjoy. On the other side, when you stay at home at holidays and force your brain to do the same things it has been doing all the time, it´s like working day and night without sleep and the chance of "brain collapse" and mental diseases are huge.
	To sum up, overloading our brain with multiple tasks continuously is like driving a car for a long distance without fuel supply. The brain stops working after a while like a car stops driving. Therefore it is important to let the brain relax and recharge by going away from home.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1182-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-263-societies-benefit-from-closer-relationship-we-have-with-foreigners",
Essay 1281:
	It is believed that communities get a lot of benefits from the international tourism industry and foreign investments. Although these industries sometimes bring negative effects to the local communities, I personally believe that the benefits outweigh the drawbacks.
	On the one hand, foreign tourism and international business activities have some negative effects on societies. Many international travellers are bringing habits and cultural activities which are inappropriate for local communities. For example, many western people wear casual clothing such as short pants or bikini, when they visit the sacred temple Tanah Lot in Bali. The local people feel distracted with these kinds of attitude and behaviour since tourists have been warned about the clothing standard but they have abandoned it. Besides that, with the invasion of foreign investments, they have given negative effect for local businesses. One of the examples is that with the growing number of Seven eleven stores in Jakarta, it has given negative effect to the local traditional market.
	On the other hand, many societies have taken the advantage of foreign investment and international tourism. Firstly, tourism industries have created a lot of job opportunities for local people. As the tourism businesses grow, there are many new hotels and restaurants that are built and automatically absorb local employments. Secondly, international tourism and business make a significant contribution to a country's GDP. Taxes on hotels and restaurants and income taxes of expatriates contribute a significant amount of money for the country's income. Thirdly, with the high number of tourists that visit tourist attraction places, they have generated revenues for these places. As a result, these tourist attraction places could independently manage their own operational costs, without relying on government subsidies.
	In conclusion, international tourism and foreign investment have their own positive and negative sides. Despite the drawbacks, I do believe that international tourism and business have more benefit for local people and governments as well.
Essay 1282:
	Since the dawn of time people around the world develop a closer relationship not only to their own country but also internationally. This is because of the growing tourism industry internationally and the business dealings each country has. It is agreed that societies greatly benefited from the closer relationships they have with the foreigners. This argument will be proven by looking at how international tourism brings diverse people together and business growth results in a convenient life for the locals.
	For one, International tourism brings diverse people close to one another. For example, in Boracay situated in Kalibu, Aklan, the beach capital of the Philippines, many tourists from France, Germany and America consistently come and visit the white sand beach and they constantly develop friendships with the local people of Aklan. With the comradeship that they have, the locales learn their cultures and different languages such as French, German and American English. As this shows that the closer relationships Aklan people have with the foreigners really has many advantages for them.
	In addition to this, with tourism industry comes more business resulting to a convenient life. For instance, in Boracay, business growth increases rapidly from international fast-foods to native foods, souvenirs to disco clubs that give more jobs for the local folks. Thus, they can surely afford basic needs for themselves and their families which make their lives more comfortable. It is obvious from this that the Kalibos have a benefited a lot from their closer relationships with the people from other nations.
	In conclusion, the relationship between the people of Aklan and the foreigners developed closely through international tourism that bringing them together and the business associated with it that makes local people's lives more convenient. It has been proven that closer relationship with the foreigners benefited enormously the societies. Thus, it is recommended for us to socialise with different nationalities.
Essay 1283:
	Some people believe that people have many advantages from international business and tourism. However, I totally disagree with this opinion and firmly believe that people have much more disadvantages than advantages from the international relationship with different countries.
	First of all, international tourism brings many disadvantages to the local environment. For example, when people come to visit new places from different countries they use transport to move from one place to different. As a result, local environment has been polluted. Another example is tourists like to visit historical places of a new country that they have just come to visit and some of them do not have respect to this historical place. As a result, these people can disturb this place by leaving rubbish there or ever though break this place.
	The next point that should be taken into consideration is that local businesses have been distracted when outsiders come with their new products or services from overseas. For example, it is a local tradition to produce chocolate and a lot of people buy this popular type of chocolate. However, foreign people brought with them different types of chocolates the price of which is cheaper. As a result, local people start to buy new, foreign type of chocolate. Therefore, the local production of chocolate stopped and people who worked there lost their jobs. For this reason, local people can struggle with the international business relationship and international tourism.
	To sum up, it is evident that international business and tourism bring with them many disadvantages to the local environment and economy. From my point of view, it would be better to develop without distractions from foreign business and tourism. 
Essay 1284:
	Setting up of a native firm in another country creates an atmosphere of sharing; the sharing of businesses involving manufacturing units in other parts provides opportunities to various people in a society. For instance, people coming in other countries due to globalisation directly impact their culture by the way of their lives and lifestyle. Due to globalisation people would have options to choose wide verities of products they need. If we consider the impact of globalisation, people in one country have the choice to taste other products of another world, this way globalisation helps in having a diversified culture in a society.
	Secondly, the impact of the relationship with international tourism if elucidated can have a wide role in the society too, tourism makes different people of different cultures to different areas. The people in the tourism-dominated areas are definitely affected by the lifestyle of the foreigners, the people in tourism-dominated areas try to imitate and follow the lifestyle and they also try to learn the languages spoken by them. For example, people living in a tourism-dominated area like Kerala in India, people can understand English and are conversant with the language, this is mainly due to the influence of tourism in that area.
	To conclude it is my strong opinion that societies benefit from the relationship with international businesses and tourism but the benefit should be limited to the transposition of good aspects.
Essay 1285:
	International tourism and business play a very crucial role throughout the world. It is clearly seen that countries are beneficial to each other through the sound relationships. I believe that tourists and business industries are greatly involved in imparting the knowledge of different cultures and to thrive the economy of the country.
	To begin, tourism has a great impact on understanding the different cultures. When the tourist goes in different nations, they closely observe their way of living such as their clothing, food, language. Thus it results in contributing the one’s knowledge and making the bond with different kinds of people. Moreover, tourist industry helps in strengthening the economy of the different countries. Different tourist destinations earn a lot of money from foreign people. For example charging through tickets, different restaurants make a valuable profit through the tourism.
	Secondly, the international business also contributes to developing the economy of a country. Different types of products are sold in the international market. For instance, China does the business of selling the cars, electronic devices of different models and mobile phones to the other countries. So this is regarded as beneficial in raising the financial status of the developing country. In addition to this, the international business ceases the tensions between the different countries. Different nations overcome their differences through the business deals.
	To conclude, both the industries play a remarkable role to tight the international relationships and strengthen the economy. Tourism leads to exposure to the different world and business help to reduce the international tensions. I hope this relationship bring new changes and benefit in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1181-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-262-technology-has-made-our-life-too-complex",
Essay 1286:
	Admittedly, modern technology has caused so many changes in our lives. With its impact in our lives for the recent years, some believe that it has given us a complicated life and others refute this because they believe that it has made life easier for us. These points view will be discussed in this order.
	It is believed by some that new technology has made our lives too complicated because of the modern crimes we have heard these days. For instance, more electronic offences have being committed such as stalking and fraud offences. My elder brother, Fernando Meriales, who is a very busy engineer in Australia, is using an online bank because he thinks dealing his accounts online is way much easier than doing it traditionally to the bank. However, online money transactions have been committed by the fraud offenders using his bank account without his knowledge. In addition to this, social media crimes through the use of social networking sites such as Facebook and Instagram also emerged. An example is the San Roque High school girl student; Jessel Mallari has been fooled by her 30-years-old lover in Facebook and was raped by this criminal and taken her life. Thus, it is clear why some people gravitate towards this point of view.
	On the other hand, many argue that modern technology has made our lives easier for the high-tech equipment and transportation facilities public people are using nowadays. For example, in the hospital where I am working, the Urdaneta Sacred Heart Hospital is using the Respiratory Ventilator for breathing support of our critically ill patients. Also, we do have a CT (Computed Topography) scan to diagnose easily those who have brain diseases. These two new technologies improve and prolong our patients' lives. Another example is the computer transportation system such as skyway and subway rail stations such in Singapore where through computers they can see who are the transport violators and ensures the public safety. After analysing these facts, it is clear why many people support this claim.
	In conclusion, for reasons related to e-crimes and social crimes as well as high-tech facilities in medical and transportation field, the issue of whether technology has made our lives too complex or easier is refuted and supported by many. However, after analysing these two points of view, it is clear that the argument that technology has given us a more convenient life can be supported and is expected to be realised.
Essay 1287:
	In my view, technology has made life easier and at the same time, it has made our life somehow complicated.
	We can't say it has made our life too complex because it is of the person's decisiveness to choose whether they want an easy or a complicated life, but it would fit to say it has made our life complicated in a certain manner to the extent that we have no control over some of its outcomes. For instance, technology has a role to play in air pollution and there is no way we can run away from pollution since it is a worldwide issue and  as long as air pollution is there, each and every individual alive on this planet will suffer the consequences of this bad side of technology whether they like it or not.
	Although most agree that technology has made our life easier, they have failed to make the most use out of it and its benefits. The benefits of technology go beyond transportation, communication and entertainment. Especially in the 21st century, technology is found in our day to day life. It has become an answer to most of our questions and a solution to most of our problems. It creates the atmosphere of comfort in a depressing era. Technological products such as cars, refrigerators, aeroplanes and stoves are some of the good examples to show how technology can simplify one's life.
	In general, we can conclude that technology is a way of making life easy.
Essay 1288:
	Inevitably, technology has revolutionised the world. It is argued that the technology has complicated our lifestyle, but it must not be forgotten that it has been beneficial in terms of making life convenient. I strongly believe that the advantages of technology outweigh the drawbacks. This essay will discuss the issue, using examples of the internet and MRI scan in the UK to demonstrate points and support arguments.
	Firstly, there is ample evidence to suggest that the technology has made the human life easy going, especially related to connecting with friends and the world. The reason behind this is that with the advancement in the information technology, one can easily connect with their loved ones. For instance, unlike in the past, nowadays people use the internet not only to keep in touch with their friends and family but also to get information from around the world instantaneously. Therefore, it is an undeniable truth that the modern technology such as the internet has made possible to connect with the world conveniently.
	Secondly, it is evident that the advancement of technology in the medical field has a positive impact on human life. This is due to the fact that by using modern technology on the healthcare system, people may have a healthy and comfortable life. For example, recent studies by General Medical Council in the UK showed that after an MRI scan had been installed, the rate of diagnosis of cancer almost tripled compared to the previous year, and this eventually provides people to get an early treatment. As a consequence, unsurprisingly, with the use of modern equipment in hospitals, people would get better health facilities.
	To conclude, I believe that the technology has tremendous benefit in our life and had made our life far easier than our grandparent times. This is mainly because of the use of the internet and better health facilities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1179-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-261-companies-and-other-organizations-are-requiring-their-employees-to-wear-a-uniform",
Essay 1289:
	Requiring individuals to dress their uniforms when at work in many companies and organisations became an enormously controversial issue in this new generation. Uniforms resemble one's own identity, whether you are a student or a working professional. In this essay, I will discuss both the advantages and disadvantages of dressing uniforms.
	Among the advantages, dressing a prescribed uniform in a work field is very eye-catching and more formal to look at. In this way, clients will treat them with due respect despite the success and failure in their duty. What is more is that it represents the uniqueness of one's own character no matter how good or bad an individual is, which attributes more on physical aspects. For example, many people in my country nowadays prefer to take up nursing course because it is a noble and caring profession. It is attractive to look individuals wearing white uniforms although the workloads are not easy, caring for the sick is tremendously tiring and did not earn much in their monthly salary.
	On the other side of this argument, crime is on the increase as a disadvantage because some will abuse powers vested to them to their subordinates and local communities, like in the national and local governments, especially in the criminology department. By acting illegally not in accordance with the law, that will simply degrade the reputations and give them negative images to people in a society. Moreover, policemen here in the Philippines can be seen scattered in the streets abusing people who they thought were not doing the "right way".
	In my own conclusion, dressing a uniform attire correlates with responsibility. Accountability of our own actions must be in a harmonious tandem to avoid further conflicts.
Essay 1290:
	Companies and organisations are enforcing their employees to wear a uniform. Is this helpful for the employer or employee is a debating topic, but here, I will describe some of my views regarding this topic either they are in favour or in opposite opinion of this view.
	First of all, a uniform presents itself as a dress code, no one feels superior or inferior to anyone and that provides an employee the comfort on their job, that ultimately leads to growing in profit. One of my friends was working as a grinding man in a company and he always complained about the feeling of being inferior to their employee, but when the company restricted all staffs to wear a uniform, it helped him to feel comfortable on his job place. Secondly, an employee wearing uniform has no tension of contaminating the dress and everybody feels easiness in their working and they work freely all kinds of work in the company.
	In spite of above-mentioned advantages, there are some disadvantages. Firstly, it is very difficult for an employee to wear the same dress over and over again, each one gets bored and try to avoid being in a uniform. This thing affects their performance on work. Secondly the man in uniform if having an allergy of specific dresses like cotton, he always feels bad and tries to avoid. Another reason, he always worries about their precious things that were kept in their dresses and ultimately he works partially hurt that leads to cut in the production.
	We find a way to tackle the situation by enforcing the uniform for the employees who are working in the field or on a technical machine, while uniform would not be necessary for peoples working in clerical jobs or those who are sitting on managerial positions.
Essay 1291:
	These days, a lot of profit and non-profit organisations provide and necessitate their workers to wear uniforms. Wearing a uniform at work has some benefits and drawbacks, but in my personal opinion, I think the advantages of wearing a work uniform outweighed the disadvantages.
	To begin with, some people think that when companies provide uniforms for their employees, it is a negative thing. From the employers' point view, providing some uniforms for their staffs will increase the companies' operational cost, especially industries that require a lot of labours. While from the employees' perspective, they feel that they do not have any choices or freedom in wearing clothes, which might impact on their self-confidences, especially women workers.    
	On the other hand, many people do not realise that wearing a uniform in the workplace has some positive sides for both organisations and workers. Firstly, as wearing a uniform at the workplace became mandatory, it has saved clothing expenses of each individual worker, whereas employees who work in other companies that do not provide uniforms have to buy their own working apparels. Secondly, by providing uniforms for employees, it will not differentiate the economic class of each employee. As a result, the working environment will be more positive and conducive. Lastly, as employees are travelling or commuting around with their uniforms, they become free advertisements for their companies.
	In conclusion, it is true that many corporations and institutions are necessitating their employees to wear uniforms. It has some benefits and drawbacks for both companies and workers, but in my point of view, it has more positive points rather than the negatives one, and I would encourage more companies to provide uniforms for their staffs.
Essay 1292:
	Being formally dressed makes a positive impression of an individual and his devotion towards his work. Taking forward this thought, organisations are mandating its employees to wear formal clothing at work, which in my perspective, makes a positive impact on the customer. However, as indicated by some individuals, it is necessary to have good interpersonal skills for maintaining a long-term relationship with their customers.
	There is a famous saying that 'the first impression is the last impression’, hence a person dressed smartly is more inclined to make an enduring impact on the client at his first appearance than a casually dressed person. At the point when workers are professionally dressed, they feel more confident and behave in a user-friendly manner.  Such a decent conduct by the employees of an organisation advances a sound customer association which further builds a strong relationship and is more likely to be appreciated by the client. This, in turn, motivates the staffer to perform better.
	Therefore, letting employees dress nicely helps imbibe discipline in them which further increases their productivity. This has also been proved in a survey conducted on the employee productivity that indicates that an individual productivity increase alone by 70% by dressing uniformly at work.
	Some people prefer sound interpersonal abilities over sharp dressing for sustaining a strong healthy relation with the customer. They feel that good analytical ability allows employees to understand the customers well, though good oral aptitude serve to pass on the thoughts in better and effective way. This is correct to some extent, but it takes more time for developing a good relation.
	To conclude, it is essential to dress well as it helps employees make a strong bonding with the customer in a very less time.
Essay 1293:
	Uniforms are usually seen as serving several purposes in the educational institutions, workplace and service organisations; mostly it is aimed to provide identity and recognition but in some way achieves more than solving a dilemma of what to wear to work today. The organisations that implement uniforms have several reasons for such practices, this practice embodies more than the norm of the trade.
	Usually, by following this practice the organisations realise several important, internal and external, objectives. I have heard an anecdote of a seasoned banking president who used to have his staff buy their suits from only one tailor in the city, he had standardized the cut and allowed several somber color choices for staff members to pick from, the philosophy, as narrated by one of his staff members, was to create a professional look amongst his staff who feels proud of their profession and give out an authoritative vibe to the people who visited their bank. Some other organisations use the uniforms as a symbol of their corporate identity like airlines, hotels, restaurants, enhancing their visibility to the world outside and causing free advertisement of the “brand” they represent. Of course, the attire places the brand at a different level, if you see an air hostess crisply dressed in an elegant outfit the image of the airline by default jumps up a notch.  There are several other reasons as to why uniforms could be an appropriate choice like equality and ranking among members of the same organisation, a sign of showing preparedness for work and so on.
	Having said all above it does not mean that uniforms do not bring any downsides, the foremost is the monotony that members feel in their lives, wearing the same colours and clothes every day can lead to losing the enthusiasm as envisaged at the time of designing the uniforms. Imagine a person who is not taking good care of his/her attire and creating an image that is contrary to image the organisation is trying to build – this unification as can develop the brand, can also destroy it because of a single person not carrying it appropriately. There are several other possible reasons why uniforms could be detrimental to the cause of equality/corporate image like poor reproduction in repetitive orders by the supplier leading to several shades of the colours/cuts of the outfits that pass for a uniform, instead is an attempt to unify the form failing flagrantly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1177-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-260-some-say-that-young-people-are-not-suitable-for-decision-making-positions-in-governments",
Essay 1294:
	We all know that higher the position, greater are the responsibilities and risk associated. Decision-making positions such as Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Defence Head, Chairman of Central Bank etc. are all associated with huge responsibilities and risks. A person in one of these positions should be mature and wise enough to make important decisions. There are few people who believe that young people should not be allowed to take responsibilities of these positions, while others feel contended that age cannot be a constraining factor for such positions. In this essay, we will discuss both of these two points of view and then present a well-critiqued opinion.
	Firstly, many people believe that young people are aggressive, impatient and less experienced. They can make a wrong decision which can be proved fatal for everyone. For example, it is often found the young people easily get carried away and try to resolve the issue with violence. On the other hand mature person often adopt a peaceful way to solve the matter. Thus considering the implication of the decision taken at a prime position is considered that young people are not suitable for these positions. They also think that without sufficient experience and capability of handling stress, those positions can’t be served. Another point which is often prescribed by this group is that young people are sometimes driven by their emotion which is unsuitable for a responsible position.
	On the other hand, many others feel that young people are more energetic, have fresh thinking and idea and they can drastically improve the nation’s position. For instance, Akbar was just 12 years old when he was sworn as a king and was considered as one of the best emperors of Mughal era. The above example and qualities do lead us to establish a link between young people and the growth of a nation. Thus, young people are considered a good choice for top positions. The young owners of successful IT businesses also prove their ability to handle top positions like these. In the last 10 years, the world has witnessed many successful leaders and entrepreneurs that eliminate any doubt we have regarding the ability of young people.
	Following the above discussion, it is felt that younger people are quite capable of handling the responsibility associated with a top position. However, to eliminate any risk we should allow young people to nurture under the guidance of experienced people for some time.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1176-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-259-we-have-been-living-in-the-nuclear-age-now-for-over-half-a-century",
Essay 1295:
	Since the inception of humanity, energy has been like oxygen to mankind. As said in the famous saying necessity is the mother of all inventions, man has created many new forms of energy to cater to his needs. To generate the continuous supply of energy we have been using non-renewable resources. Nuclear energy has emerged as a clear alternative to the conventional non-renewable resources which are depleting at an accelerating rate.  But, with its hugely rewarding merits, it has proven itself as a dangerous alternative which can be fatal if placed in wrong hands.
	The nuclear emission can be fatal to the living organisms and thus the production and consumption have to be done with a lot of caution. For instance, the USA used nuclear weapons on Japan, Hiroshima Nagasaki. We can never forget the horrendous mass destruction it caused and the after effects present till date. Since then, the world super powers have reached many agreements to not repeat such usage of nuclear technology which can threaten the life on earth. Furthermore, the Tsunami in Japan brought Japan and its neighbours at a high risk due to emissions from the impacted Nuclear Energy plant.
	While the dangers of nuclear technology are well known and measured, the advantages it provides are huge too. The Amount of energy it can generate can make a country self-sufficient for its energy needs. Countries like Japan have realised this and are now generating the nuclear energy on large scale. Japan has ensured that all the safety precautions are addressed to marginalise the dangers.
	Since every scientific invention has proved to have two facets, Nuclear energy can prove to be an answer to the energy problem of the world, provided it is used wisely. All the countries, small or big, must come together and work towards using the Nuclear Technology as a tool of development.
Essay 1296:
	In the past, nuclear technology was instrumental in defining the military power of a nation. It revolutionised the way wars are fought now. Nowadays, governments are doing more R&D, how to use this technology in a controlled environment to benefit power, medical, commercial and industrial sectors. This essay will analyse the merits and demerits of using nuclear technology for civilian usage.
	Nuclear power plants can be made using this technology which will provide a cheap source of power for developing countries where energy crisis are rising ever year. For instance, Iran is using its nuclear power plants to generate electricity. However, if safety procedures are not followed strictly in operating these power plants, it can result in leaking of radiation in the environment which can have adverse effects on the mankind and ecosystem of the region. Power plants in Russia is an example, where radiation leakage happened due to the mishandling and that caused the death of many power plant workers.
	Medical sciences and medical equipment are another domain where nuclear technology can be used to cure patients. For instance, Cancer, which was widely believed to be non-curable disease, can now be cured to some extent by exposing the patient to radiations on a regular basis. Again, this procedure of curing is painful and does not work all the time.
	Another benefit which nuclear technology can provide is in oil and gas exploration. Nuclear well logging is used t help predict the commercial viability of new or existing wells. It is also used in food processing where food is treated with ionising radiation. This food treatment if not handled with care can contaminate the food with radiation and it would be disastrous if the food reaches the market unchecked.
	To conclude, the above provides advantages and disadvantages associated with using nuclear technology for the civilian purpose. In my opinion, even if the nuclear technology is used in a strictly controlled environment with proper safety measures, it still posses' threat to mankind and ecosystem of our planet. We should expand our research and look into other technologies that can be an alternative to nuclear technology and is environmental friendly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1175-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-258-societies-that-don-t-respect-and-honor-their-women-can-never-make-progress",
Essay 1297:
	History has proven the fact that the societies and civilisations which haven't respected rights and safety of women have perished badly. I am strongly in accord with history here, and firmly believe that respect and safety of women are the basic foundations of a society. It is imperative that if a community is not providing equal rights to women and if women are bereft of basic freedom, there cannot be an ounce of progress in that society.
	To buttress my point of view, I would like to strike comparisons between two countries: India and the USA. Although the constitution of India has legislated 33% of reservation for women, even after more than 50 years of independence, India has failed to respect its women. India is struggling to change the Male chauvinist mindset of its man brethren, who still consider themselves superior to women. The staggering rate of rape cases and nuisances against women is a reflection of this mindset. With these state of affairs for women, India has a long way to go to make its society an honourable place for women. In contrast to India, USA has done a very good job in terms of respecting its women, treating them as equal. The super power status of America can be equally attributed to the women in the USA who have equally contributed to the progress of the country.
	Woman of this world wears many hats at the same time. They are mothers, wives, sisters and office bearers at the same time. A woman holds the noblest responsibility in the mankind of bringing the life to the earth. They nurture and develop a child into the youth and shape them into future of a nation and of the world. Women have proven themselves worthy of many accolades if given equal opportunity. For instance, in the last year's Olympic tally for India, Women won more medals than Man. It is thus apparent that to build a full blown progressive society, women plays a key role and thus must be respected in all manners.
	In a nutshell, men and woman must be treated equally in the eyes of the society. Respect for women should be inculcated in the blood of a society. To make this world a better place to live, awareness should be spread to treat the woman with utmost reverence. I would recommend, Nations should work together to solve each other's problems and make a resolve in upholding the esteem of women.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1172-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-257-in-the-modern-world-we-are-more-dependent-on-each-other",
Essay 1298:
	While some believe that the modernisation has made us more reliant on each other, others, however, think that we are more self-reliant and free from dependency on others as the time has progressed. I believe that we have become more independent than any time in the history.
	People who advocate that we have become more dependent on each other in this modern era often present the idea that our necessity has increased and we need to interact with far more people due to this. This in a way requires us to rely on others for our need. For instance, office executives mostly rely on laundry services, restaurants, house maids, cleaning services and so on to have their necessary works done. In the past, people used to do most of these tasks on their own. Moreover, the prices of education, house, daily commodities etc. is skyrocketing day by day and we need to rely on our parents to have those needs fulfilled until we get a job. When we will become earning members, our parents and children will rely on us. Due to people’s busy schedule and high ambition, they need to socialise and get to know people from different walks of life and this creates a wider circle in which people’s interaction and reliance on each other increase.
	However, I would agree with the people who opine that modernization has made us free and less reliant on others. In most countries, young children are trying to support their education and living cost. After a certain age, they prefer to stay own his own house. The number of nuclear and single parent family proves that people are less reliant on others. We are free to pick the school, travel to other countries and make our choices for most of the major events in our life including picking our life partners. The progress of the technology has made us more self-reliant and we love to take advantages of the modern tools and devices to make things of our own. For instance, many people these days pick an online lesson than getting admitted to a training institute. Many of us even have the freedom to work from home and this is a paradigm shift in the way we earn our living. Finally, the gender equality and women empowerment movements have greatly made the women free from others reliance and self-dependent and this has all been possible only recently.
	In conclusion, though some people think that modern era is the time when we are more reliant on each other, I personally believe that we are more free and self-reliant instead.
Essay 1299:
	People have argued about how human life is in the modern days. A group of people believe that human beings have become more independent these days, but others think that humans are more dependent on their kind. The following essay will discuss both opinions, but in my personal view, I believe that people have become more independent nowadays.
	Several people believe that mankind has become more dependent on each other these days. Due to the globalisation, the cost of living in many countries has increased significantly in the past recent years which enforce both husband and wife to work hard, to fulfil their family's expenditures. As a result, many families are relying on their parents or babysitters in taking care of their children.
	On the other hand, some people think that humans are more independent these days. Firstly, due to the rapid development of the medical world, the average life expectancy of the human being has positively improved. As the senior people are healthier these days, it means that they are less dependent on their sibling or their children. Secondly, with the existence of electronic household devices, such as washing and drying machine and microwave oven, mankind are less dependent on housekeepers. They could just easily place their dirty clothes in the washing machine or just place the frozen food in the oven, and it will be ready in an instant.
	In conclusion, many people think that human beings are more independent these days, but others disagree with the statement. In my point of view, mankind is less reliable to others nowadays, since the world has improved in many ways, such as in the medical field and in information technology.
Essay 1300:
	The world is considered to change a lot day by day. People around the world become more educated than previous days and they are learning how to live on their own to avoid dependency on others.
	Firstly, while considering the older generation, they were not educated people on an average, mostly they did not know how to read and write. They needed to take help from others to write letters, legal documents and read letters, newspapers, documents etc. Secondly, older people believed that children should take care of them while they become old. And children also took responsibility to look after old people. So parents were more dependent on children. Thirdly, parents used to pampered children in older generation, for example, mother took care of homes as father worked outside to bring up family financially, so children were more dependent until they graduated from university, even children did not think about doing a part-time job to earn money, since the father took care of financial matters.
	On the other hand looking into the modern world or generation, almost all of the people are educated and they do not depend on others to write or read. Older people in the modern world are not dependent on their children. They are planning what to do after their retirement to avoid dependency on their children. However, they are considering going to a nursing home if they are not well. Parents in the modern world are teaching the children from childhood onwards how to take care of themselves since both parents working as full-timers so that children can learn how to live on their won. Most of the children from 15 years onwards are doing part-time jobs to earn and support their expenses.
	To sum up, in my point of view, in modern world people are not at all dependent on each other; everybody knows how to live on their own.
Essay 1301:
	In the modern society, many people believe that dependence is a new trend in their daily basis, others reject this notion, holding a totally opposite opinion. In this essay, I shall explain my point of view by analysing both sides of the argument.
	There are, however, a number of reasons connected with the reliance on each other in recent years. Firstly, since our jobs are becoming more complicated and specialised, teamwork and coordination among various departments group activity are more crucial than individual achievements. Admittedly, a successful management and leadership brings about various benefits, ranging from time-saving to cost-efficiency, therefore the ability to work in teams is a common requirement at the workplace. Secondly, men rely on technology. Apparently, since technology has influenced most human activities. As a consequence, people need to depend on specialist technicians in each area to sort out issues in their everyday life.
	On the other hand, many may argue that people are more independent for certain reasons. Perhaps the financial freedom could be the primary causes leading to this situation, especially by the young people. For instance, more and more young people choose to do part-time jobs during their studies. This gives them a great economical independent as they do not need to depend on their parents for their pocket money. Moreover, thanks to the great popularity of the internet, people can easily find solutions for their problems without any help.
	As discussed above, I am convinced that people have become more independent, in spite of their dependence on others in certain aspects.
Essay 1302:
	Some people believe that nowadays, people are more dependent on others for many things and some other people believe it is not and people are more independent in today’s modern world. Let's discuss both views. My personal view is people are independent and dependent according to the situation.
	In the modern world, people depend on each other for some matters. Firstly, as the lifestyle is very busy with works people have to depend on others, Parents have to depend on servants or daycare centres because parents have to take care of their kids and while they are working they cannot be independent. Secondly, we rely on others in situations such as preparing foods, car washing, repairing of equipment etc. Because we cannot arrange times to do those necessary works though we have the ability to do so, in a way we are more dependent on others. Thirdly, people still depend on public transport rather than using their own vehicles.
	However, from another point of view, as people are using their own vehicles rather than using public transport in many cases, we can infer that they are independent. Also, we are not dependent on others as we had been in the past in sending the mail through postmen's, we are just sending emails. Moreover, people in today’s world, doing many things using credit cards rather than depending on other people. Finally, people are not relying on others in the modern world on sports. Even though there are sports trainers, we are using equipment for physical training.
	To sum up, I believe our dependence and independence are always based on the situation & matters we get in today world. As an example, I also looking for help from my friends in educational things and sometimes I do not expecting help since I could surf the web. As people, we have to keep on this with a great balance.
Essay 1303:
	In the present era, one group of people thinks that dependence is important whereas, another group of people think the opposite. In this essay, I will discuss both the aspects with examples.
	On the one hand, there are a number of reasons why people are dependent on others. Firstly, in the work environment, people normally dependent on their coworkers as this will help them to deliver the results more quickly and more efficiently. Also, getting suggestions from others will help them to reduce the work pressure as well as it will ease their work. For example, in a marketing job, there are people who take care of sales, planning, customer relation etc. If they all work together as a team they can succeed in their jobs.
	On the other hand, in this present generation, people want to be more dependent. Some people think that the dependence on others will waste their time and delay the work. Also, becoming independent will increase confidence to face the difficult situation and it helps in enhancing decision-making skills. For example, nowadays, most parents send their children to study in boarding school/ away from home, to make them understand the outside environment. Parents think that this will make their children independent, which will help in building their self-confidence and make them successful in their career as well as in personal life.
	To sum up, by considering the above benefits, I personally believe that the dependence on other is beneficial in some cases, where our individual effort is not fulfilling the requirement. However, in cases where people want to prepare themselves to make important decisions of their own and learn something extra, it is better to be independent. All in all, the decision should be made based on the situation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1171-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-256-governments-should-give-financial-support-to-creative-artists-such-as-painters-and-musicians",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1170-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-255-in-the-developed-world-average-life-expectancy-is-increasing",
Essay 1304:
	In the modern world, the expected life of an individual is gradually increasing. Many people think that the trend is a positive development, but it has caused some problems for many countries. The following essay will discuss the effect of this positive trend, and some of the ways that could be considered in addressing the problem.
	It is a fact that average life expectancy of a single person has increased these days, due to the global improvement in the sector of economic, social politic, education and public health. Despite this positive development, the ageing population has caused some issues for governments. Firstly, as the number of senior people increase, the budget that governments must provide for the retirement fund and medical care automatically rise. Secondly, the growing number of senior people will be aligned with density problems. As the population of old people grow, the demand for the housing rise and consequently increase the price of properties, which would be a problem for the young people.
	However, there are some steps that governments could consider to resolve the issue. One of the ways is that governments could extend retirement age standard. Many countries are having the standard pension age at the age of 55 years old, and they could extend the age into 60 or 65 years since their senior people are still in a healthy and prime condition. Therefore it would reduce governments’ social welfare budget for the retired people. Besides that, governments could also provide a subsidy for the young people when they plan to buy a house.
	In conclusion, the world is developing rapidly in the last few years, and it has positively impacted on the average life expectancy. However, this positive trend has caused some problems for individuals and communities, therefore it is necessary for governments to take some actions in solving the issue.
Essay 1305:
	Our ancestors didn't live more than 50-60 years. In the last centuries the life expectancy had been about 50-55 years and now it is 60-70 years in developed countries. In Norway for example, it is more than 80 years for women. The question is that "Is this it a gaining or draining for humans being to live longer?" The increase of life expectancy has two negative consequences. It affects a person’s experience of life in his/her last years, and it also is a burden on the society in several ways. In the following paragraphs, I will discuss both.
	There are many factors that affect the length of our lives. Thanks to the scientific developments, medical achievements and increasing life quality in the last decades, life expectancy has raised from what it had been before. People are more concerned and informed about their health and we tend to seek help from doctors more than before. At the same time, access to medical help is easier than ever. Diseases are discovered and diagnosed more precisely and quickly and the treatments are more effective. Since elderly people are more frail and fragile, the incidence of diseases is higher among them. Hence, more resources like money and manpower should be used to keep older people on feet.
	Furthermore, in my opinion, the rise of life expectancy is the quantitative measurement of life. Age is a number and it does not depict all the aspects of life. The quality of life is significantly reduced the older we become. Elderly people are usually struggling with both mental and physical problems and often they have a solitude and sorrowful life in the last years of their life. The life expectancy has increased quantitatively, but in my opinion not qualitatively enough! We should help people to live longer, and more importantly better.
	To conclude, I believe that to live longer can be a gaining if we can help elderly to live a peaceful and valuable life as well. Of course, it will burden the society in several ways, but the society is nothing without the people in it.
Essay 1306:
	Nowadays, humans' lifespan has significantly improved than before. This has made two major problems to people and communities, and I think two important solutions should be implemented to tackle them.
	To begin with, longevity has enhanced the governmental budgets. Clearly, elders need more supervision by the state authorities, including retirement pension, healthcare expenses, or housing for those who cannot afford their rent; however, other age groups need a less fund. For example, the administration only has to expense on education for juveniles, and young are healthier than the former. To solve this issue, governments have to escalate their budget to improve seniors' quality of life via increasing taxes paid by properties or businesses. This means the more citizens and businesspersons pay higher taxes, the more they will earn benefits during their retirement age. In this way, had the government of BC obtained more taxes from the local inhabitants, it would have had more saving to raise old people's pensions.
	In addition, ageing may worsen the condition of unemployment. Obviously, retired individuals may not afford their daily spending, and they have to work even they become over sixty-five years old. However, many of them cannot compete with other age groups, especially those youngsters seeking the same job. Ageing makes humans more disable physically, leading employers prefer to hire others; therefore, communities would face more jobless seniors. To address this problem, governments should assist these aged citizens by prioritising them in some appropriate careers. Definitely, this group of dwellers has a better experience in their profession they have been working, and the state authorities can use them in some appropriate situations. For instance, writers can be hired in the section of official press directed by the government. They have better capabilities to write articles or even publish the related journals in the regional newspapers.
	In conclusion, humans' lifespan is growing, and I believe that it can incline both the state funds and job positions needed for elders. To resolve that the administration should increase the tax and improve the condition of employment for them.
Essay 1307:
	Development has brought numerous benefits to human society like high birth mortality, high life expectancy etc. At the same time, there are many new challenges which have cropped up as a side effect of the development. For example, the ageing population is developed countries has created an enormous financial burden. This essay would elaborate about few of the effects of the ageing population on developed societies and would also talk about few possible steps which can be taken to overcome these problems.
	But, as it is said, every problem has a solution, so has to this problem too. Governments should first try to attack the root cause directly by encouraging citizens to opt for more children. Tax rebates and other incentives should be given to families who have more than 3 children. This will solve the problem in near term. As an immediate solution, the laws should be tweaked to encourage immigration. Younger and productive people from developing countries would help elevate the gross domestic output immediately. These measures, as one can see, are increasingly being popular in the United States and Canada.
	Therefore, while financial impact of the ageing population is huge but it can easily be overcome by taking certain measures like allowing foreign immigrants and encouraging high birth rate.
Essay 1308:
	With the improvement in medical treatment and better nutrition, the senior citizens are enjoying a longer lifespan in the industrialised countries. While this is good news, it does create some issues for both the individual and the society. This essay will present two possible scenarios and the solutions to alleviate their negative impacts.
	On a personal level, living longer means you need to have more savings to spend in those extra years. It is common to see some old people go broke in their early retirement and become homeless on the street. For example, in my neighbourhood, I usually see a woman in her seventies dressed in very old and dirty clothes and wonder around the dumpsters looking for food. It is heartbreaking to see this. In order to reduce the likelihood of running out of money, I believe education on financial planning is the key. People should receive free training on how to sensibly contribute to their pension during working years, as well as how to invest safely and how to keep a certain proportion of savings as the safety net.
	In terms of the pressure on society, with the increase of the elderly, more money and resources would be allocated to take care of them. More medical staff are needed and more old people's homes are to be built. On the other hand, the senior citizens can still contribute to the society if proper regulations are introduced. For instance, the government can welcome the healthy and energetic old people to re-enter the workforce and use their accumulated knowledge to add values to the companies. If old people prefer to stay with their families, they can also help with childcare and house chores.
	To conclude, the rising life expectancy brings its own issues to the individual as well as to the society. However, effective measures can be taken to mitigate these issues and in the long run, the senior citizens should be treasured and encouraged to create more values for the community.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1169-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-254-some-people-believe-that-hobbies-need-to-be-difficult-to-be-enjoyable",
Essay 1309:
	On the one hand, several people believe that enjoyable hobbies need to be difficult and complicated. Sophisticated and challenging hobbies such as mountain climbing, bungee jumping or water rafting are considered as high risk and trigger the adrenalin. To conquer those hobbies, people need to be in a healthy condition and require them to master some sophisticated techniques. And when people could conquer these activities, they would be satisfied with the accomplishment and achievement. As for simple hobbies such as walking or reading, they believe that these activities are less challenging and boring, since everybody could do those activities, and they do not require any kind of expertise or breathtaking.
	On the other hand, it is undeniable that people have different interest, passion and hobby. For certain people, easy hobbies such as stamp collecting or jogging might be considered as boring, but others feel that these activities are fun and satisfying. Some people are satisfied and proud of their unique and diverse stamp collection, while others enjoy walking as it helps them in maintaining their health. Therefore, people could not rank different hobbies based on the difficulty level of the activity.
	In conclusion, it is true that some hobbies are difficult but others are easy, and everyone has different hobbies. I personally feel that hobbies do not need to be difficult to be enjoyable but they should be in accordance with a person's interest.
Essay 1310:
	Once in a while, we have to have enjoyment through things we always like to do to escape from our stressful work, so we do have a certain hobby. However, these habitual things should not be extreme for us to enjoy, because as long as we love what we do and we can afford it, then we will get the pleasure we want to.
	For one, as long as we have a fondness of what we like to do regularly, we can achieve enjoyment. For instance, my hobby is reading fiction and nonfiction books such as the series novel Harry Potter by J.K. Rowling and the Pretty Little Liars series by Sara Shepard. I really love to read since I was in my preschool age and I do this every weekend or I am not busy at work in the hospital. This is not a very difficult thing to do because I am just sitting on a couch or in my bed while doing this, but I always get the pleasure I wanted.
	In addition to this, these books are affordable so it more added to our indulgence. For example, there are preloaded books in Burnham Bookwormers bookstore that is located in Baguio City, Philippines, in which we can purchase a second-hand book for only 10 to 20 pesos, an equivalent of half a US dollar. So it is very cheap. Whereas when we engage to extremely hard hobbies such sky-diving, cycling down a cliff or feeding a shark by our hands like others wanted to do, then we need to have a lot of money to be able to do such things, and we cannot enjoy these if we always think how much money we spent for these dangerous hobbies.
	In conclusion, it is always pleasurable to do activities of our great interest and at the same time economical. It does not need to be hard and risky like some would want it to have fun. So I highly recommend enjoying what you like doing as long as you can manage it economically.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1168-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-253-several-languages-are-in-danger-of-extinction",
Essay 1311:
	Some languages are in the phase of extinction due to the low population of the speakers. A group of people believe that governments should allocate some budget to preserve these languages, but others think that it would not be effective and efficient. The following essay will discuss both opinions, but I believe that maintaining the diversity of languages is an important thing.
	On the one hand, some people believe that spending public money for protecting minority languages is a waste of money and time. The cost of maintaining the languages would be expensive since, there are only a small number of people who speak the languages, and many young people would refuse in learning and speaking in these languages as well. They believe that the money could be allocated for other important matters such as education, public transport and health.
	On the other hand, many people believe that it is necessary for governments to preserve the existence of minority languages. Every nation has its own traditional languages which are spoken by their ancestor and descendants, and they have been passing through for many generations. There are a lot of myths, legends, traditional and cultural activities which are passing over to the next generation using these languages, as many tribes have no written literature. And if these languages do extinct, then it means that many nations will lose their precious historical cultures. Therefore it is important for governments to take some efforts in maintaining minority languages, though the cost of preserving them might be considered as expensive.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that several languages in the world are in the phase of extinction. Some people suggest that governments should provide some fund for preserving these languages since they are inherited from the ancestors. Others think that the act is a waste of money as it has not economic benefits. Though both views have their own positive sides, I personally believe that people should protect the diversity of languages.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1167-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-252-foreign-visitors-should-pay-more-than-local-visitors-for-cultural-and-historical-attractions",
Essay 1312:
	It is sometimes seen that tourist attractions, including museums, important historical sites and prominent monuments, impose a higher fee for the overseas travellers than the local people. I do not agree with this idea and believe that the charges should be exactly the same.  
	From a perspective, it might seem logical to charge foreign tourists more to enter a traditional and historical place as most of those monuments and establishments are state-owned and the government fund those from the tax they collect from the local residences. From this regard, many feel that local residences are already paying a portion of the ticket money through the tax they pay to the government. However, this is a very narrow view and this arrangement dissatisfies the visiting tourists as many of them find it discriminatory. From a broader view, if more foreign travellers are encouraged to visit nationally important tourist attractions and important historical and cultural place, this would bring more foreign tourists and this would ensure more earning from the tourism sector. Furthermore, it would help spread the national and cultural importance around the world. From this perspective, collecting some extra money from the entrance ticket is a shortsighted step.  
	Furthermore, happy tourists encourage their immediate friends and family members to visit a country and some tourist attractions. If those tourists get the impression that they are being changed more money than the local people, they would psychologically feel unhappy and would share their dissatisfaction with others which would mean less foreign tourists. Many shrine and monuments are maintained by the ticket money it collects and if the number of visiting travelers get decreased, it would be tough for the authority to maintain those important places. From this perspective, having an equal entrance fee has a better impact.
	To conclude, from a broader perspective having the same ticket fee, both for the residence and foreign tourists, to allow the entrance to any nationally and historically important place including museums, art exhibitions, parks and historical places is more beneficial and I completely agree that the fee should not be different.
Essay 1313:
	Maybe everybody has experienced that they have to pay more in comparison to local people to enter a museum or zoo. For some people, it can be acceptable while others may dislike it very much. Some people advocate it while others may object it. In this essay, I will try to put myself in the position of both groups and discuss the cons and pros of each option.
	Firstly, when the foreign visitors pay more for a cultural and historical attraction, it will bring more income and economic benefits for the owners of that attraction (that city, country etc.). Further, the more money is gathered through the attraction, the more service the provider can give to the tourists. They can use the money to improve the facilities offered to the tourists like translations in several languages, brochures, headphones (for listening translation). Moreover, they can educate local people about the attraction and hire them as tourist guides to assist visitors to offer a better understanding of that attraction.
	On the other side, those who disagree with this opinion may say that this discrimination (that tourists must pay more than local people) may lead to a misunderstanding and they (the tourists) may think that the system is abusing them. This feeling of abusing may result in dissatisfaction and reduction in the number of tourists. Moreover, the less amount of tourist, the less income will be brought to the attraction.
	For instance, The British National Museum is free for everybody to enter while the Louvre Museum in Paris costs a lot of money for visitors to enter, and both have a lot of visitors each year. I believe that the staff of each attraction must calculate the benefits and drawbacks of each measure (price difference in this case) and evaluate the consequences. To conclude, it is difficult to suggest "the golden solution" which will work out for every attraction.
Essay 1314:
	Some people think that tourists should pay more money to visit cultural and historical places than local residents. I do not agree with this motion. In my opinion, local people and tourists should pay the same fee to visit museums and historical places.
	Firstly, if the government increases ticket price for tourists, the number of tourists who visit the country can decrease. As a result, this situation affects the country's economy badly. Moreover, cultural and historical places symbolise a country's characteristics. Therefore, they are advertised for countries. If the figure of tourists declines the opportunities for adverts local restaurants and places will also get reduced. It is also bad for countries' economy. If more money is taken from the international tourists than the local visitors, the foreigners would feel discriminated and this might lead to dissatisfaction among them.
	Secondly, ticket price can be equal both for the local people and tourists because both of them have a right to visit cultural and historical places equally. To separate visitors in terms of their nationality is not a good sense and in my opinion unfair. Some countries are notorious for unfair ticket fees such as Turkey and Greece. For example, Topkapı palace is a very popular historical place in Turkey. It is visited by hundreds of thousands of people every year. It is very famous all over the world. However, according to the news, which I have read it recently, the number of foreign visitors is decreasing due to high ticket fees in Turkey. The price for tourists is four times higher than for local visitors in some museums in Turkey. Hence, many tourism agents criticise governments because of this.    
	In conclusion, in my view, tourists and local visitors should pay the same money to visit cultural and historical places. To increase ticket price for tourists in cultural and historical places does not enhance tourism income. By contrast, it can decrease it. Furthermore, I would argue that both local visitors and tourists have an equal right to visit cultural and historical places.
Essay 1315:
	It has been a long time that countries all over the world are improving their tourism industry to boost their economy. So they are attracting foreign travellers to come and see their cultural and historical attractions. However, the implementation of additional payment to them more than the local tourists is unacceptable. This argument will be proven by looking at how improper this is because local government has subsidisation already and excursionists from other countries have made contributions already.
	 For one, imposing more charge to foreign visitors is objectionable because the local state has already subsidised its cultural tourism improvement. For instance, one of the new 7 wonders of nature in the world, the Puerto Princesa Underground River which is situated in Palawan, Philippines has been improved a lot through the help of not only the local administration of the province but also our national government. So all they have to do is to encourage more foreign tourists to come and see the place. Therefore, there is no need for them to pay extra fees to see the beautiful cultural heritage of our country.
	In addition to this, travellers from other countries have contributed too much money already when they visit a certain country. For example, the Philippine Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) is collecting 1500 pesos as a travel tax for every foreign excursionist, an equivalent of 50 USD. This is actually a lot of contributions collected by the Philippine government from them. Thus, it is very undesirable to charge them more for improving the countries historical attractions.
	In conclusion, it is disagreeable for the state of the Philippines to collect more fees from visitors of other nations due to the fact that it has subsidised its cultural and historical attractions and collecting airport tax already from them. So collecting more fees from these people is highly not recommended.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1166-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-251-when-choosing-a-job-the-salary-is-the-most-important-consideration",
Essay 1316:
	It is certainly true that payment is a necessary thing to consider in preferring a line of work, but it is not the most important one. This argument will be proven that a harmonious workplace and love of work are the leading factors in choosing a job.
	For one, working with people in our job area harmoniously is more significantly weighed in work preference than what a person may earn. For example, I am currently working as an ICU (Intensive Care Unit) nurse in a tertiary level and a private hospital called the Urdaneta Sacred Heart Hospital here in the Philippines, and I have chosen to work in this unit because I have too many companions in the hospital. My workmates, friendship and support for my career growth are things that I considered more important than my earnings every month. So I believe that working in a harmonious environment is more about taking into considerations.
	In addition to this, loving what we do is as important as working in an environment harmoniously when choosing an occupation. For instance, I have a strong compassion for other people, especially for the elderly as well as I love touching their lives make a difference, which is nursing is all about. Thus, I preferred to become an ICU nurse. I am also certain that all of the professionals chose their line of occupation because they are happy with what they are actually doing.
	In conclusion, harmoniously interacting with our co-workers in our work environment and being satisfied with what we are doing are the most important considerations in selecting a job. It is not the salary. So choose an occupation with a supportive environment and that you are happy to do with.
Essay 1317:
	Payment from a job is one of the essential aspects for people to consider but it is not the only reason people take a new job or continue the existing one. I personally believe that there are other important considerations while choosing a job.
	Without any doubt, salary is essential in order for people to survive and a great proportion of people rely on the money they get from their jobs. Most of the job-holders pay for their housing, utility bills, food, treatment, travel, education and so on from the money they get from their employers. It is evident that if employers stop paying the employees, there would be virtually no one left to work in a company. Teaching, sports, painting, politics and research are considered to be professions where passion is more important than money. However, if there is no money at all, I have doubt that anyone would pursue these careers.               
	However, money is not the most important concern for someone to choose a job and there are other important considerations to start and continue a job. Passion and interest to the work, for instance, drive most of the people to work. For instance, many established artists, actors, writers and scientists who have already amassed a great fortune would have stopped working if the sole purpose of working would have been the money. From my personal experience, I can say that while choosing a job people most of the time consider a job they would enjoy rather than the money they would earn from it. Other important aspects, like the job security, career prospect, work environment, relationship with the colleagues and bosses are all important to choose a job. Personally, I would like to have a job that suits my educational background, let me learn and implement my ideas, have a great working environment and then I would consider the money I will get for the job.  
	To conclude, salary is an important aspect for picking a job but other factors in combination play more vital roles and have more significance than the money.
Essay 1318:
	It has been proven that salary has been one of the important factors when people are looking for a job but undeniably, different people have various opinions about their favourite job which are directly depended on people’ ages, their characters, expectation, qualification and the economic situation.
	In fact, there is an acute difference between aged employees and fresh graduates to find their desired jobs. In another word, the youths consider work experience and want to enhance their abilities when they are choosing a job. While considerably ages and experienced people are looking for the better salary as they have obtained enough skills on their professions.
	Also, the economic situation is another important factor when people are choosing their jobs. Put another way, some people prefer to have a job with a lower wage while the country is experiencing the shortage of work. For example, these days some European countries such as Greece or Spain are struggling with the bad economic situation and there are lots of unemployed people living there. So these people just want a job no matter how much the salary is. And the last parameter is related to people’s characters. It denotes that people have various requests from their jobs and it is not possible to write a prescription for all of the people on this matter. For instance, some find the work environment as the most important factor of a job, some other pay attention to the quality of relations between colleagues and some just are interested in the figure of the salary.
Essay 1319:
	In today's expensive world, needs of the people are growing day by day. To fulfil all their desires, money is an important factor. Therefore, to some people, salary is the first thing to look at when choosing a job. To an extent, this can be considered right, but, I cannot totally rely on the amount of money I am being paid for my work. There are various other factors to be seen when looking for a job. Some of them are discussed in the below paragraphs.
	People enjoy their jobs when they are doing the work that they wanted. Hence, personal satisfaction is the factor that matters. For example if a doctor works in a high profile hospital of a city, where he gets a handsome amount of salary, but does not enjoy his work because he is not getting to experience different types of patients and cannot experiment with his skills as he would be doing if he were in a rural area. Then what is the use of having a high salary? His skills are being restricted. Job satisfaction is, therefore, important for the person to give his fullest in the field.
	Second, vital factor to see is the ambience of the workplace. The colleagues, with whom he is going to work and the employer should be cooperative, understanding, friendly and make up a good team so that it is easy for the person to work with and feels comfortable and relaxed. Finally, comes the reputation of the company or a workplace. Good rapport in the market and with the customers is necessary to achieve success in future; otherwise, the growth will be hampered.
	To sum up, the aforementioned factors should be kept in mind when choosing a job. According to me, salary off course matters, but it is not only the thing that should be looked for.
Essay 1320:
	The salary is regarded as one of the most important factors while making a choice between jobs. Salary is the real outcome of the job performed and hence it becomes a prominent part in job selection. However, I completely disagree that salary is the most important part of choosing a job. Job satisfaction and career growth are equally important aspects of the job to be considered. I shall prove these parts in following paragraphs with more details.
	Most people give preference to job satisfaction over the salary. Job satisfaction includes work-life balance, vacation, quality work and many more parameters. It is scientifically proven that job satisfaction adds to well-being and happiness to human lives. For example, a person earning less will be happier than the person earning big bucks but going through extreme stress and pressure at a workplace. Thus, job satisfaction should be considered as an important factor while choosing a job.
	People also give equal importance to career growth when it comes to selecting a job. Promotions, new skills, job responsibilities are some of the parts of career growth. People tend to give importance to these attributes of the job as it becomes path breaker for their future career.  For example, sometimes more salary can be only claimed if a person is holding a certain level of position in an organisational hierarchy, thus, it becomes vital for people to be considerate about this career growth aspect also.
	In conclusion, I completely disregard the salary aspect of a job while choosing it. In my view, job satisfaction and career growth should be seen as the most vital aspect while making a choice between jobs. In the modern world, it is advisable to become circumspect about job choices by equally evaluating all aspects of the job.
Essay 1321:
	Most people believe that the wage is the main factor of making a decision for a career. In my opinion, I disagree with this idea as I will discuss in the following paragraph.
	There are several reasons that make me not suppose to support this idea. Firstly, I believe that job satisfaction will make people working with efficiency and productivity. Secondly, you might get more stress when you get more salary. For example, most of the occupations including a doctor, or a pilot get a higher salary. However, they are taking more responsibility in their roles as they are working with people lives so they could make a smaller mistake or any mistake could not be made while they are working. Finally, money is not everything. Some people are addicted to the amount of money and spent a lot of time on their career without recreation, or society with other people such as friends, parents, and loved one.
	On the other hand, considerations in the earning with a career also have some positive sides. To begin with, money is not everything but our quality of life depends on it. With a huge amount of money, we are able to purchase a bigger house, a luxury car, and other things that make our live convenience. Another reason to take wages into consideration is the more salary will push us to work harder that it opens an opportunity to get into higher positions. Moreover, a high salary represents a successful in our live. Most of the people who get higher payment on their career are the one who has got an outstanding education, high level of technical skills, or participated in many activities that benefit to the social.
	In conclusion, I don’t believe that earning is the main features to take into consideration while choosing a career, job satisfaction should be the first factor to consider while selecting an occupation, without it, we will not happy with our roles and we can’t grow up with our career path.
Essay 1322:
	Employee hiring and retention are two utmost important tasks of Human Resource department of modern enterprises. Organisations spend a great deal of money studying the reasons of attrition. And many of them conclude that compensation is the biggest reason why an employee accepts a job offer. I too think that salary is the most important motivating factor for one to accept an offer.
	Firstly, one needs to understand the motive why anyone looks for employment. It is obvious that one does a job to earn money, to support his family and so that he can lead a good life. With time, everyone's need changes and one top of this, inflation makes things increasingly unaffordable. An employee starts looking outside when he finds himself stretching to meet his family need. Second reason is that when an employee feels he is not paid enough he would start finding a new job. Infosys Technology's HR department's exit interview, when they try to find the reasons why an employee has left the job, data reveals that 80% of people leaving job has the salary as the first reason. This shows that compensation plays the biggest role in employee's decision of switching job or taking new offer.
	However, there are many other important reasons why one selects a job such as work-life balance, the opportunity to rise in the organisation's hierarchy, work culture etc. Study by Bangalore human resource organisation revealed that 50% employees provide non-salary as one of the reasons for taking a new offer. From my personal experience, I have seen many of my colleagues taking a new offer in search of other better opportunity or to switch career.
	Therefore, we can safely conclude that salary is not the only consideration while choosing new job but it is the topmost reason why one takes a new job offer.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1165-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-250-young-single-people-no-longer-stay-with-their-parents-until-they-are-married",
Essay 1323:
	It is a fact that a lot of young people leave their parents' house when they complete their graduation from high schools. They prefer to live independently as they continue their higher education or decide to work. This trend has its' own positive and negative side, but I personally believe that it has more benefits than the drawback.
	On the one hand, many people believe that leaving parents house during the young age has a disadvantage. It is undeniable that many young teenagers are not yet ready to live independently by themselves. Many of these people are not yet matured in making decisions and in differentiating between right or wrong for them. As a consequence, many of the young people become addicted to narcotics and alcohol or became pregnant at a very young age.
	On the other hand, despite the disadvantage, living independently at the young age has some advantages for them. Firstly, they will learn how to manage their own life and appreciate the time. They learn how to set some priorities in their life, as they have to make schedules for studying, groceries shopping, doing the laundry or cleaning their apartment by themselves. Secondly, for those who leave their parents for work, they would reduce the burden of their parents. Parents could stop the financial supports for their child and could be allocated for the younger children or for their retirement plan.
	In conclusion, it is true that many young age people choose to live independently these days after they have graduated from high school. Although the trend has a drawback, but I personally believe that it has more advantages for both the child and the parents as well.
Essay 1324:
	Nowadays, people leaving homes at an early age - is quite in a vogue. Some people consider that staying away from home in young age either to study or for work has more advantages than disadvantages.  In my opinion, leaving parents behind and moving apart has many drawbacks than benefits.
	Today, the world has become more competitive than before. With the growing advancements and modernization, lust for power, money, better lifestyle has also increased a lot. Young people always try to cope up with this fast moving world. Hence, in search for their desires they move away from parents and home at an early age either to study further or in search for better jobs. I admit that this is essential, as it provides exposure, increases job perspective, better salary, modern lifestyle and so on, but there are disadvantages as well. These are as follows:
	First of all, youngsters when they move out, they are totally unaware of the world and its challenges. They initially feel isolated and sometimes feel homesick. This can lead to depression if they don't find a way to get rid of it. For example, a student may find it difficult to stay alone after he/she has stayed with the family for a long time. Secondly, problems of accommodation may arise as moving to a new place and finding a proper room to live is quite a tedious job. At this point of time, people may get frustrated and cannot concentrate on the goal that they have been here to achieve. Lastly, a most common problem that many people face is self-satisfaction. If they find themselves not satisfied, they tend to indulge in activities that are not acceptable to the society. For example, salary and promotion issues compel workers to commit crimes such as theft, robbery etc.
	To conclude, for all the above-mentioned points, it is essential for the parents to be with their children to support them, encourage them to move further and above all provide them with love and care. Therefore, in my view, though there are some advantages of leaving homes early but disadvantages are far more than that.
Essay 1325:
	Deciding on whether to stay with family until you get married or to leave for education or work is a difficult question. While there are advantages to both options, I believe that living separately is more beneficial. This is due to the fact that it is important to become self-efficient at the young age.
	On the one hand, living with family has certain financial benefits. If you like to live separately it would require a lot of financial resources and some families could save a lot of money if children stayed. Moreover, life with parents wouldn't be as stressful as it would be if you live alone. You will have enough time to find the job you want or to start up your own business. However, the main point in such tradition is that children could be protected from improper decisions. If they live with their families, they are not responsible for their families or jobs and they do not need to take major decisions as parents would mostly do that.
	In conclusion, although living with parents is simple and effortless, it is crucial to leave your comfort zone at a certain age, to be ready for facing real life difficulties.
Essay 1326:
	It is not uncommon these days that in every country, young unmarried individuals are not living with their parents any longer because they choose to go abroad for study or work purposes. However, in every certain change, there are always benefits and drawbacks as I will now be discussing.
	My first point is, as a young adult, leaving our homes to study or work overseas will benefit us personally and professionally. For instance, when I was studying for a three-month course for initial registration for overseas registered nurses at IHNA (Institute of Health and Nursing Australia) in Heidelberg Hts. Victoria, Australia, I learned a lot more about myself in that twelve weeks program, because of the unique space in which I learned, experienced and spent exploring an Australian culture. My maturity has increased as well as my self-confidence and I gained personal growth. Also, an entire range of professional opportunities has opened up to me after I finished the initial registration partly due to the skills and internship experiences I acquired in one of the prominent hospitals in Melbourne, the Royal Melbourne Hospital. Thus, I am now a professional ICU (Intensive Care Unit) nurse in a tertiary level and private hospital here in the Philippines, the Urdaneta Sacred Heart Hospital.
	On the other hand, leaving our own home & our family will make us feel homesick that may sometimes lead to depression. As for my experience in Victoria, I was so alone and always missed my parents. Even if there is technology to make my communication ready and accessible with them, still it was not enough. As a result, I almost got into a depressing state if only I did not learn how to cope up. So these are the possible disadvantages of living away from home.
	In conclusion, I think that this trend will have a positive and negative impact in our lives. But if we manage to adapt this situation, this will give us more benefits than problems. So in order for us to achieve this, perhaps we have to socialise more often with our classmates or co-workers to avoid depression.
Essay 1327:
	These days a lot of parents worry about their children’s independent behaviours. In fact, it was a custom that youth leave their homes after they married in many countries but at present, mentioned custom has changed and young people make their own life because of other different purposes such as study or work. While there are some disadvantages on this new behaviour trend, advantages are more considered and so, this essay has tried to cover the reasons.
	In the past, it was defined that anyone should marry and young people live with their parents to save money and increase their abilities to make their own families. It was logical that they didn't separate from their parents as they specified marriage as their life goal and according to those days' lifestyle, living with parents was preferred by young people and was beneficial.
	But nowadays, youth have a new perspective of life. In other words, they do not believe that marriage is the most important goal in life and they should be independent as soon as possible to have their interested lifestyle. Therefore, new targets have been replaced and youth not only do stay with their parents until they are married, but they go to other cities or countries to work or study. In fact, it makes a good opportunity for young people to be independent and help them to understand the meaning of life including its difficulties and ups and downs.
Essay 1328:
	Over the past few years, there has been an increasing trend of adolescents staying away from home and parents to another place for the purpose of getting a good qualification or employment. There are various pros and cons of this trend which are elaborated in this essay.
	On the one hand, I believe there are certain positive effects on the juveniles who choose to study or work away from their residence. Firstly, it helps the young ones to become more independent when the parents are not around them for spoon feeding. Moreover, they are able to make decisions by themselves that makes them more confident. Secondly, the experience of living far from home makes the children more responsible at a very young age. For instance, a person doing a job will know how to carry out the expenses and to save the money, when he is not living with parents. Finally, experiencing the different phases of life and learning from them can be possible when one is living away from his family.
	On the other hand, the negative sides of this trend should not be ignored. Becoming independent and leaving parents for the career might cause the children to become emotionless and they may not feel the love that develops while living with parents. Furthermore, some of them can feel lonely and homesick that hinders their success for which they might be struggling.
	In conclusion, considering both the aspects of living away from home for personal reasons, the advantages of this drift far outweigh the disadvantages.
Essay 1329:
	In the past, young people only left home once they got married. Nowadays, though, youngsters tend to leave earlier. While there might be some disadvantages to this phenomenon, I believe that its benefits far outweigh them.
	There are two reasons why young people should not leave home earlier. Firstly, not all youngsters are ready to live away from home. An example of this would the type of people that are easily influenced by friends. Such people might lack the ability to resist their friends' temptation to get involved in dangerous situations, such as drug abuse. Secondly, parents would have to experience empty nest syndrome sooner than expected. This might be even more pronounced since they worry whether their children are mature enough to live on their own.
	Despite the plausible drawbacks, I think there are more advantages that can be obtained. One of them is that young people would sooner be more independent and reliable. Since they could no longer rely on their parents, they have to depend on themselves. For instance, they would learn to do household chores, which they might not have learnt otherwise.
	In addition, the parents-children relationship is likely to improve once both parties experienced living apart. Young adults might realise just how much they miss their parents, whom they might have taken for granted all this time. Thus, both sides are likely to make extra efforts to treat each other better. Besides, parents would have more time to take care of themselves once their children left home. The bond between the husband and the wife can even deepen this way.
	In conclusion, while I agree that there might be some drawbacks to the trend of young adults leaving their home earlier, I believe that there are more advantages to it. Thus, parents should let their children live away from home, even way before their marriage.
Essay 1330:
	Nowadays education and job have become very important part of everyone's life. Without good education or job, it is difficult to survive in the present expensive world. Getting good education & good job is becoming an essential part of everyone's life. In order to fulfil this, sometimes people have to stay away from their parents. This has positive as well as a negative impact.
	Firstly, when there is a thirst for quality education, sometimes it is difficult for people to get admission in a good college or their field of interest, in the vicinity of their home. This makes them go away from their house and study in college/school which is far away from their family. They end up in staying in a place near the college. This development will help them to spend most of their time in college rather than to spend time in travelling alone. This will also make them access the library on weekends. Also, sometimes it will be cost effective as the student spends less money on travel. In addition, if they stay near the college they can do combined study, with their fellow classmates thus making them easier to understand the subject and have a successful educational life.
	On the negative side, it is when people stay away from parents, have less contact with parents and parents have less control on them. As a result, they fall into bad habits like drug abusing and unprofessional way of making money. This destroys their education and this will have a huge impact on their career and spoil their future. Secondly, people need to travel or stay away from their home depends on the job they are into. For example professions like marketing, sales normally require a lot of travelling and sometimes they even have to stay in a different city in order to reach their target. Some professionals, especially who are in the software field, need to work in their client place for a longer duration. This duration may reach up to 4-5 years depending on the type of project they are handling.  In one hand, this movement has advantages as people become more independent and thereby, it increases their self-confidence. It also helps in making the responsible citizen for the future. On the other hand, when people stay away from home they get exposed to bad companies, which will lead them to bad habits and destroys their career.
	To sum up, staying away from home will have both the advantages as well disadvantages. However, from the above discussion I opine that there are more advantages compared to disadvantages. Also, I feel the people who go away from home have to be in good touch with their parents. They should regularly visit their home during their holidays / vacations and also attend some family functions. In this away, they can maintain the family bonding, together with their professional or education life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1164-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-249-do-the-drawbacks-of-video-games-outweigh-the-benefits",
Essay 1331:
	Playing games are considered an instrument of sound mental and physical health. The trend of indoor games such as video games is proliferating and gaining fame among all age groups – from adolescents to adults. However, the impact of this trend has come under scrutiny and has been a concern for many. The protagonists of such games cite that video games are effective educational tools, whereas dissenters void that claim by counting numerous demerits of such games. I too believe that video games are lethal trends and have negative repercussions. Some of the disadvantages will be outlined in following paragraphs.
	Firstly, while playing video games, players develop the sedentary position which is harmful to them ergonomically. Additionally, incessant exposure to game monitors could be detrimental to their vision. Other than physical impact, video games also impact emotional and social behaviour negatively, especially to children and adolescents. It can be noticed that the themes of a majority of the video games are prominently based on violent battle, massacre or destroying animal and mankind. Overindulgence to such games makes the young minds of children susceptible to emotional indifference. They could like to emulate the destroyers and warriors regarding them as role models.
	In contrast, enthusiasts enumerate some credits to the account of video games. They believe that playing such games helps to improve your command on the technical gadgets. It is observed that good players are cognizant of the know-hows of computers and can monitor the game efficiently. Being good at the video game is a demand for the new generation. Many children complain that are marginalised in the school if they are not up-to-date with the video games, which leads to embarrassment for them.
	To conclude, I would like to reiterate that video games have far more disastrous impacts that outweigh its positive sides. In order to control this destructive trend, parents, teachers, lawmakers and each individual will have to contribute to instigate awareness that video games should be controlled or terminated.
Essay 1332:
	In the modern world, computers and electronics entertainment devices have become totally pervasive in our society. Video game, one aspect of electronics entertainment, has triggered many debates about its positive and negative impact on health and psychology. Several studies have been done and researchers have divided opinion on the effects of video games on player's health and mentality. In my opinion, benefits of video games outshine the drawbacks if few cautions are taken by players in selecting the type of games.
	Among the bad effects of video games, its impact on health is most debated. Studies suggest that youngsters are spending more time at home than playing outside, which clearly has effects on their growth and development. But with the development of newer technologies, newer forms of games are available in the market, which encourages people to participate actively and physically in different sports. Sony Corporation, for example, has a virtual tennis game where a user needs to play with a computer holding a sensor in his hand which works as a tennis racket. This gives the user a virtual experience of a real game. And also helps to improve mind and body coordination by letting the user flex his responses. Therefore, choice of video game and the device make a lot of difference.
	Another important positive effect of the video game is on brain development and problem-solving skills. Online Puzzles and number games are increasingly being used by schools to improve thinking capacity of the pupil. Similarly, corporate have training programs designed in form of computer games. This helps to make sure that trainees focus and interest are maintained and maximum knowledge is passed in a fun filled way.
	Therefore, video games have a higher degree of positive effects on human than their negative effect and can be used as a tool for learning and development. But, like any other tool caution needs to be taken in selection and usage.
Essay 1333:
	In the era of modernization, video games have been an obsession regardless the gender and age. With the aid of latest technology, the young learns to play games as early as one to two years old following their parents’ steps. Research shows that exposing gadgets to toddlers can cause negative effects towards their growth. Thus, we should realise how harmful video games can be if we fail to use it in a proper manner.
	Video games cause addiction and this can lead to many problems such as responsibility issues. Teenagers, usually have a hard time in delivering their everyday chores once they are stuck in front of the screen. It creates disciplinary problems as they fail to restrain themselves from spending too much time in front of the computer. They began to neglect their homework and assignments which not only put themselves in jeopardy but also their teammates if the task required teamwork.
	Furthermore, the vulgarity of certain video games has been proven to be the reason of aggressiveness inside a person. They easily get influenced by the video games as they are cut out from the outer world. The vulnerable group - the young adults, is the riskiest group as they are still in their development phase. There have the tendency to imitate the improper actions depicted in the video games in their daily life.
	Besides, health problems are increasing since video games are being introduced. Disease associated with bones and body posture seem to have the most drastic changes as people are healthier in the last 10 years. Not to mention, most people need to wear spectacles nowadays to help in their vision. I believe, that these have got to do with the ridiculous amount of time spent looking at those interactive images.  
	Coming for self-defence: the self-claimed gamer once said that they manage to improve their English by playing more and more video games. Well, this is partly true as they may learn new vocabulary in a fun way compared to stuck-up their nose in a dictionary. Nevertheless, it only restricts in vocabulary wise, not in grammar as most of the games use simple everyday English rather than Queen’s English.
Essay 1334:
	In information technology age, people are engaged with computer programs; one of the most popular computer programs is video games. Although having some negative effect, video games can teach some useful skills. This essay outlines both positive and negative effect of video games.
	Video games are made in different genres including horror, sport, adventure etc. Some of these games are useful and educational. Players of these games need basic information and skills to complete them. For instance, a plane simulation game requires a player to know primary pilot skills; so the player has to gather some information about pilot skills such as taking off, landing, navigation, and etc. Gradually, the player feels some skills in him. Furthermore, the puzzle games make player challenging with secret points of the game's story. Recent mentioned games type increases players’ creativity. In a nutshell, video games can be useful and educational.
	On the other hand, some games are not beneficial. The horror game is a good example. They make a bad effect on players’ morality. In addition, playing video games usually is addictive. Video game players play more and more heedless of time. This may cause overweight. Latterly, the main factors of most of the video games are sex and violence. These factors navigate the society to dark way. Thus, video games have undesirable aspects.
	To conclude, video games have both good and bad impacts. Choosing the right game is the first step to use them rightly. How to play and how much to play are the latter steps. It depends on the player how to act wisely.
Essay 1335:
	Nowadays, it is an important question whether we should let our young children play computer games or the games should be banned. While some people think it is fine for their children to play, others believe it is unacceptable. As far as I am concerned, the disadvantages of video games outweigh the advantages.
	First of all, the possible benefits of computer games should be mentioned. There is a wide range of games created for educational purposes, especially for the very young children. This allows kids to learn how to use modern computers as well as some new information from the educational game. Additionally, for youngsters, games can keep them from bad companies. They can simply sit home communicating with their friends and having fun instead.
	However, the number of drawbacks also takes place. Modern games are expensive and usually involve further purchases while the game is being played. Another aspect is the time children spend on computer games. Instead of education and learning, kids waste hours online even without breaks, thereby influencing the condition of their health. The most considerable disadvantage in video games is cruelty. Although there are age limits, parents still buy such games for their infants. As we know, there have been a few cases when children took guns and shoot innocent people on the street. The computer games have the negative effects on health and psychology as well. Young students who are addicted to games often perform poorly on academic studies.
	To sum up, although there are fun and educational games, the most of the modern video games are violent and cruel, and this may have dreadful consequences. Therefore, I believe there are more drawbacks than benefits.
Essay 1336:
	Nowadays, most people of all age groups, especially young adults, are drawn to video games with the high technology developing year after year. Video game devices such as Play Station Four and Nintendo Wii are popular examples of high-tech devices. Although playing video games can be quite fun, it can also affect the player negatively. I believe that video games withhold cons more than pros.
	One of its adverse effects is that it is a waste of time. Playing video games is not much of a problem when limits are present, but most individuals exceed this limit. Some people put down a two-hour time limit for play but sadly end up playing for more hours and are not aware of time. Rather than spending one's time on such games, it is more beneficial to the individual to take the time to read books or even spend time on a favourite hobby, for instance, that will most probably lead it to evolve over the years.
	Another reason to support my opinion is that it lessens the human to human contact. Due to the hours taken on video games, the person will not have a normal social life where people speak face to face. A young adult playing, choosing to turn down going to the mall with friends where they will socialise, can be taken as an example. Modern games have many violent and devastating plots and game actions that can psychologically affect the players. The gamers suffer from various health problems and often are less social.
	To draw the conclusion, the positive sides of the video games are fewer when compared to the negative sides. Video gaming should be limited to certain hours and the rest of the time wasted should be replaced by socialising and activities that will benefit one’s future.
Essay 1337:
	Many people will be hard pressed to name one invention that has made a greater impact on young people's lives than video games. At this day and age, almost all children grow up being exposed to video games, and consequently spent a large amount of time playing them. Thus it is important to ask whether video games have any detrimental effect on children and our society as a whole.  
	Firstly, video games provide a lot of happiness to a great portion of the population. Because there exists a great variety of games of different genres for kids and even adults of every age, most people will surely be able to find a game that interests them. As a result, they will derive pleasure from playing their game of choice and lead happier lives. Even more, playing video games can at times also be a social activity, where gamers meet up with their friends to play their favourite video game together.
	However, this at first innocent pleasure can quickly turn into an addiction. Seeing that many people suffer from depression and are dissatisfied with their life, it is easy to see how these people can become engrossed in video games. Often they provide the player with a fake sense of achievement, making them forget about their responsibilities in the so-called "real life". The game "Word of Warcraft" is especially known for this, exploiting vulnerabilities in people in order to make a quick buck.
	Unfortunately, the disadvantages do not stop there: A great number of video games rely on violence in their storytelling, which desensitises the gamer towards violent acts such as physical force or even murder. While many people argue that adults are able to differentiate between the fantasy in video games and reality, nobody denies that children lack this ability. Although many countries have implemented policies to prevent young people from playing violent video games, these measures are very often not effective enough, and young children end up consuming and playing violent games.  
	In conclusion, video games certainly do have positive effects. However, it is my opinion that the drawbacks outweigh the advantages by far. This is why we as a society need to control the influence of video games, particularly when children are concerned. We often forget that a young mind is very susceptible to its environment, and that is why we should do our utmost to protect it.
Essay 1338:
	In the present era, advancement in technology has made a significant change to the lifestyle of each and every person in the world. New innovation like video games which are used to have fun and useful tools in education learning for children but some people argue that video games have some negative development on children. I am going to discuss this topic.
	Firstly, newly released and innovative video games are much helpful for children, to spend their free time at home without disturbing others. Some video games are played in a group which creates a challenging environment for children and they learn how to win the game and be successful. From an educational perspective, these games encourage imagination and creativity, as well as concentration, logical thinking and problem solving, all of which are useful skills outside the gaming context. Furthermore, it has been shown that computer simulation games can improve users’ motor skills and help to prepare them for real-world tasks, such as flying a plane.
	On the other hand, there are some drawbacks of games. Children becoming less active in terms of physical activity and more addictive of video games because users are constantly given scores, new targets and frequent rewards to keep them engaged. They are spending most of their times in playing games so it may affect their education as well their eyes and on health also. In the past, when video games were not present, at that time most of the children used to play outdoor games with their friends which seem disappearing nowadays. Children are becoming more and more technology addictive than the past which is a concerning question for many guardians.
	In conclusion, I can say that there are more drawbacks of video games on children then its positive benefit.
Essay 1339:
	The issue whether the video games are in its usefulness or in harmfulness for the people is very controversial one. On the one hand, the most of the gamers I know, are very clever persons. On the other hand, there are those who think that person who is sitting in front of a computer all day long cannot be an educated person. However, in my point of view, I think that any kind of game can be useful. In the following paragraphs, I will try to bring up some advantages and disadvantages of the issue.
	There are few main arguments that can be advanced to support the issue about computer games as a fun or educational tool. First of all, the computer games help to cure some mental problems and educate at the same time. For example, some problems with eyes, nerves etc. In that kind of games, a person has to count and follow the birds and at the same time to listen to music. The second reason, games help people to think logically. In the early age they develop a child’s thinking, concentration, motivation, why not help with reading etc. For example, in some video games, you have to pick up keys and remember some words for opening doors or codes.
	On the other side, it is not a secret that nowadays with developing of computer and different kinds of games, people spend much time in front of a computer, which brings to our isolation from the world. Furthermore, people spend so much time for playing games that forget about other more important things, as a face to face contact, walking, playing real games not virtual.
	In conclusion, in my opinion, every person has to have a measure of the time and not to spend all the time doing the same thing.
Essay 1340:
	Video games are widely played throughout the world. Many consider this video game as a form of having fun and not only harmless but also educationally beneficial. Others believe that the disturbing content of such games can influence one’s mind negatively. However, the demerits of video games, if any, that the critics put forth seem trivial when compared to its beneficial ramifications. To prove this, both the views will be critiqued.
	First, it is a well-known fact that video games can be educational. For instance, based on a few research works published in the Journal of American Behavioral Psychology, it is proven through various experiments that young people can hone their intelligence and knowledge by playing strategy games. This proves that video games do have the potential to flourish young minds when regularly engaged in such activities.
	As far as the other view is concerned, there is little evidence to prove that video games can instigate violence among people. A research work recently published in the same journal mentioned above illustrates this in action. According to this work, ‘violent’ people who play video games are naturally inclined towards games that contain violent content and imagery etc., however, their behavioural issues could not be linked to the content of those video games they were exposed to; rather, it was found to be just a matter of preference.
	Having analysed both these arguments, it has been proved that video games can be beneficial as they can increase general knowledge and intelligence, and the fact that the absurd themes of such games are very unlikely to instil violence. It is expected that video games’ popularity will continue to rise among young people in particular, and will continue to benefit them in although not so obvious ways.
Essay 1341:
	Nowadays, people are spending most of their time on computers, mobile phones and the internet. They mostly play video games and watch movies on their devices. So, the increasing usages of the mobile phones and computers for playing video games is a common trend nowadays. Some people believe that playing video games have harmful effects on people, and others believe that it is a useful tool for them. In this essay, I would like to give my reasons for both the aspects and at last in the conclusion, I will give my opinion.
	Firstly, people spend their time on computers and mobile phone for playing video games as a form of entertainment to out from stress and daily busy life. There are many kinds of video games available on the internet. For example, some video games require a good level of knowledge to solve problems and puzzles and this is helpful to develop logical reasoning.  In some video games, we need to apply our intelligence and do brainstorm so that we can sharpen our capability to solve many difficult problems. This logic can be applied to our study, in order to solve mathematical problems. So, for this reason, I would like to consider that playing video games, which are carefully chosen, is a useful and harmless tool for people.
	On the other hand, there are also some disadvantages in playing video games. Some video games require fighting and violent activities to win the game. So, continuous playing of these kinds of games can take individuals to lead the criminal activity. It may a cause serious problem to society. Even, there are some kinds of video games available on the internet which may not require additional knowledge and logic to solve it and they are simply designed to kill time. These kinds of games consume the time of people and make them more tired and lazy about their works and study.
	So, putting in a nutshell I would like to say it depends on individuals whether video games are used to learn or to kill time. As of knowing advantages and disadvantages of video games, it is an individual’s own responsibilities to control themselves before wasting their valuable time.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1163-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-248-we-should-only-be-concerned-with-our-own-communities-and-countries",
Essay 1342:
	It is true that we are living in a global village. Every country of the world is connected to each other and every individual has a role to play in the society. Some people think that one cannot help everyone in the society who is in need. Therefore, people should only show the concern to the inhabitants of his own country and community. I completely disagree with the statement for the following reason.
	Firstly, every nation today is interdependent on each other. Though, some nations are wealthier than others or require their basic needs for food, clothing and shelter to be fulfilled. According to me, countries that are well to do can help poorer countries to overcome their poverty. For example, some developing nations that had faced natural calamity require financial help to raise their economy. This is possible when another country is willing to do so. This not only provides support to affected country but also helps to develop international relationships and thus can enhance international trade. Furthermore, many countries like India face problems of unemployment. Other developed nations can resolve this problem by providing job opportunity to the immigrants. These can be achieved in their country to be served by some skilful individuals which, thereby, affects the economic development of the country.
	Above all, we all are human beings and inhabitants of this wonderful planet, Earth. We all share the same biology. Therefore, it is needless to say that all should be helpful to each other. Humans make the world and humanity should make a better society. Today many worldwide organisations have been formed to sponsor people of different countries or in need.   For instance, World Vision, an Australian organisation that sponsors children in different countries so that they can receive a better education and lead a healthy and prosperous life.
	To conclude, I believe that everyone in the world is capable of helping others by some way or the other. Therefore, the statement about concerning with only own community and country is questionable.
Essay 1343:
	There are various reasons behind the fact of helping to certain people, communities or countries only. First of all, you may not have financial solvency to help a country but certainly, may have the ability to help a community or a particular people. In some cases, you may have the positive intention to aid but which will not be taken warmly due to the culture of the society you live in. On the other hand, the people may not be interested in taking help from you due to different political or religious point of view.
	Sometimes unknown people want to help others to come to close with each other so that the aided people can be exploited later by illegal means or taking advantages of the people which he cannot get in any other way. Furthermore, bad people also want to help to take advantages in the society but people are usually not used to take help from those. However, sometimes, it becomes a question of humanity to aid the people beyond the country like helping the victim of natural disasters or manmade disasters which are usually provided by the government of a country.
	In conclusion, I would like to say that helping others is the first condition of humanities but one should only worry about helping his own communities and countries considering his social, cultural and financial limitations.
Essay 1344:
	Since man began to think seriously about making life more pleasant, discrimination became an integral and indispensable part of our quest for joy and happiness. Some people stand firmly on the belief that they should be only caring about their own communities and countries for helping everyone in the world is not possible while there is a considerable number of individuals who tend to think that all countries and communities should be taken into account. As far as I am concerned, we should help each other no matter how far our communities are. The following lines shed more light on the reasons for my preference.
	One reason is that in this technological era, all nations and countries are related to each other closely. Therefore, if nations do not support each other, they cannot survive. For example, without a shadow of doubt economic trends in one country influences all other countries or at least a great number of other ones. In 2010, the inflation in the USA had a negative effect on developing countries in Middle-East immediately. However, it took some time to feel the same effect in Europe. The point here is that numerous countries encountered this issue at last but not at the same time.
	One other reason is that we are all human beings and it is not ethical just to think of ourselves. Human has experienced a great deal of bright days and some horrible days in history. The latter was mainly because of the discrimination and not practising human rights. The most recent one was the Second World War which happened for the same reasons. Hence, not helping one another can lead to a new war and its consequences.
	Last but not least, helping other nations, one nation can develop itself. Now, many advanced countries are trying to help some other developing nations. As an example, Australia is trying to help educate some African countries by funding their youth to study at Australia and then allowing them to go back to develop their own countries. As a result, Australia is known worldwide and has made an appropriate appearance even among developed countries.
	Finally, being closely related, avoiding any tensions in the world by putting ethics into practice and developing your own country by helping other nations are the three main points to be indicated when thinking of the reasons to help other nations. If all communities consider the mentioned points, hopefully, the world will not see any new wars and becomes a better place for sure.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1162-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-247-explain-some-of-the-ways-in-which-humans-are-damaging-the-environment",
Essay 1345:
	It is undeniable that human's deeds are harming the environment. This essay will discuss how the damage is caused, as well as the actions the Government and individuals can take to protect our world.
	There are some ways in which people contaminate the environment. People worsen air pollution by making cars as their primary mode of transportation. After all, the more cars are driven, the more carbon dioxide is produced. Factories are also the main perpetrators of pollution by producing so much waste. In addition, there are individuals who dump rubbish in inappropriate places, such as the river. Unfortunately, their reckless actions make the river a toxic place to live for fish and other river inhabitants, eventually kill them.
	The Government can solve environmental problems with a number of actions. One of them is to implement a pollution threshold for factories. If a company produces more pollution than the permitted threshold, it will be fined. Therefore, industrial companies would take necessary measures to reduce their waste. Another way is to improve public transportations. Reliable, clean, and safe mass transports will encourage people to use them, instead of using private cars.
	Apart from the Government, individuals too can partake in protecting the environment. Firstly, individuals can reduce household waste. For instance, people can use cloth-made-bags instead of plastic-made-bags when shopping. After all, plastic can not be decomposed and its build up will harm the Earth. Secondly, people should use more public transportation and if possible, walk more. That way, pollution that comes from vehicles can be minimised.
	In conclusion, people damage the environment with the high usage of private cars and industrial waste, and also by throwing rubbish irresponsibly. the Government can solve these problems by implementing waste limit and enhancing public transport system. Individuals can also help by lessening their household waste and travelling by mass transports and walking.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1161-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-246-governments-should-tax-private-car-owners-heavily",
Essay 1346:
	It is believed that the best way to solve traffic issues is by giving high rate tax for private motor vehicle owners, and the fund could be allocated for improving public transportation systems and facilities. The solution has its own positive and negative sides and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	For a number of reasons, charging personal car owners with high tax rate with high tax rate and allocate the fund for improving and developing public transportation brings a lot of benefits for the society. It is undeniable that with the high tax rate, the number of car owners will gradually decrease and traffic congestion problem would slowly decline. As a result, people could commute faster work more effective and efficient and air pollution would be reduced.
	Besides that, the collected tax fund could be used to improve and manage public transportation, as a lot of people would change their mode of transportation from personal cars into public transportation. For example, the government could replace all the old subway trains and buses with the new ones which consume fuel efficiently and more comfortable for passengers. Consequently, the budget for public transportation fuel could be reduced and public transportation user would feel comfort in using the facilities.
	On the other hand, taxing private car owners heavily have some negative sides for the individual and the society. Firstly, many people live in areas which are not covered by public transportation, such as those who lived in rural areas or countryside. Should there be any public buses or trains that pass through that areas, the schedule might be only once or twice in a day. These people need private cars and if the tax for motorised vehicles is raised significantly then it would be a big burden and problem for them. Secondly, it is a fact that automotive industries have absorbed so many employments. As the demand for motor vehicle decreases due to the high tax rate, many automobile companies would reduce their employment number. As a consequence, the country's unemployment rate would be high.
	In conclusion, the solution of charging private car owner with high vehicle tax rate to reduce traffic problems has its own benefits and drawbacks. The advantages of the solution are that people could travel faster and air pollution would be reduced. However, the disadvantages of it are that it would become a big problem for those who lived in remote areas since public transports are rarely reaching them and also cause unemployment issue.
Essay 1347:
	It is certainly true that traffic in most of the major cities in every country is really a problem due to more and more exclusive cars are used. So, some of the states schemed that in order to lessen private cars on the roads, car owners should pay more taxes. Countries administration thinks that this not only solves the problem but also, it will improve the public transportation. However, as every solution that will be imposing, benefits and drawbacks will always be there as I will now be discussed.
	On one hand, tax imposition to owners of private cars will benefit the public conveniently and safely. As more money was collected, more funds for the improvement of transportation. For instance, in Singapore, their government strictly implemented a blue badge card as a form of tax for private vehicles to pass to their major cities such as Changi, Sentosa and China Town. As a result, more government trains and inter-city buses were built and utilise by most of the Singaporeans. Also, a city-wide network has been made to collect information and charge drivers if they have any violations. This means safety for the people of the lion country.
	On the other hand, though such solution is successful to the people of Singapore, it is a failure to some countries that leads to more hostility of the people. For example, when the local government of Cambridge, England, considering Singaporean techniques, it faced vocal and ultimately successful opposition. People of England showed their anger to their government through their social networking sites and even rallied on the Cambridgeshire road to express their disagreement.
	In conclusion, I think that imposition of the tax to car owners is not the only solution to problems on the road. There are other considerations as well, perhaps building a sky railways and subways. I believe these two are better than just collecting fines to one sector of the public.
Essay 1348:
	Following the industrialisation, the car has become one of the most commonly owned items. With cars we can travel miles within minutes, it made our life so much easier.  However, all the things have two sides, cars bring us convenience but it also creates problems for us.
	Almost every major city on earth is suffering from the heavy amount of traffics on roads which often cause congestion. It waste the time of people, cause pollution due to the harmful gas eliminated by cars, also makes people feel frustrated. If the government decides to impose a heavy tax on private car owners, some people will probably get rid of the excessive cars. When people make the decision to purchase a car, they will also take the cost of heavy taxes into considerations, and may, in the end, postpone their plan of having a car. The policy can restrict the growing demand for cars.
	However, since the tax applies to all private cars. Thus, the tax will increase the financial burden for car owners. There are no discriminations between the cars in major cities and the cars in the rural and remote areas. This means it may not restrict the amount of car flow in the central business district in the city, where the traffic problem is more severe. Some of the people who are not in a good financial position, but must have a car to travel to work will suffer. If they cannot afford the tax, they will dispose their cars and loose their jobs.
	In summary, I reckon the government should take all these factors into consideration before start taxing private car owners. The government should come out with a better solution that pinpoints the traffic jam, but not private cars in generally.
Essay 1349:
	Nowadays, there are so many worldwide recognised car manufacturers in the world and numbers of produced cars have significantly increased which reflected on traffic problem, and it seems that this will never stop. Therefore, some people think this is kind of alarming and needs an urgent resolution of this situation. In my essay, I would like to talk about preventive works what can eliminate the critical condition on the roads and how best we may improve it.
	The disadvantage, in this case, is when you try to reduce the number of old cars, possible this will affect a majority of people who will not able to afford to buy a new car. Especially, big countries such as China, Russia, US, Brazil, Canada and Australia will struggle without transportation activities for the long distances.
	Overall, I believe that there might be the implementation of the specially designed small cars which will be cheap, comfortable and can be used for such a purpose.
Essay 1350:
	These days congested traffics in developing nations has made lots of environmental issues such as air and sound pollution and governments have taken different strategies to tackle this problem. Undeniably increasing tax on private car owners and investing more in public transport systems are the most considerable ways which government have performed in most of the countries to control the traffic  but it is essential to investigate both of negative and positive aspects of mentioned policies and applying other solutions to reduce  the number of traffic on our blue planet.
	However, people will not use their own cars in most of the time when they must pay more taxes or insurance money and it can influence the number of traffic in each residential area, in some occasions, it directly affects the economy of a country. In other words, if the tax on the private car would be increased, prices of other goods would be raised and it makes people under pressure. On the other hand, policies should allow people to have a better life while adding costs for using a private car stand against this human right.
	Also, some governments have tried to improve transport system by developing under ways and increasing the numbers of buses and trains which are appreciated and has had a deep effect on traffic issues, especially in mega cities. While this strategy is a very good solution but perhaps allocating some part of transport system budget to develop freeways would be a fundamental solution as people can use their own cars without making traffics.
Essay 1351:
	In current years, traffic problems day by day is getting worse. Following this, it causes many different problems such as air pollution and accidents. And in order to tackle these problems, governments would tax secluded car proprietors heavily and spent the money to ameliorate public transportation. Nevertheless, it has both sides: pros and cons. The way I see it is that imposing high taxes to the private car owners is profitable for everyone.
	Looking first at the beneficial side of paying taxes to governments to improve the public transportation is that: increasing taxes which car owners must pay would have positive consequences for everyone. Fewer people will buy cars and this result leads to drop the number of private cars on the roads. Also, it can help dwindling of accidents on the road. Many young people who drive a car between the ages of 16 and 20 could use a public transport instead of using their own transport. However, fewer cars could lead to less noise and air pollution. Places would become cleaner, pure and safer. Also, people can walk and do cycling instead of driving cars and it will be helpful for their health and it would be cheaper as well. However, many people will oppose and might complain if such a decision is introduced by the government.
	There are many people who prefer a car because it is faster, more reliable and convenient. Also, there are people who escape the overcrowded places due to hygienic reasons. Using public transport can lead to the extending of infections, viruses and bacteria. That is why people who use their private cars only would be at a disadvantage because they will be obligated to pay higher taxes but unable to benefit from the improvements of the public transport.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree with the concept of increasing the taxes for car owners. The advantages outweigh the disadvantages of such a solution. In my opinion, fumes are extremely harmful to small children, pregnant women and old people. The government should protect vulnerable members of society and increase safety in urban areas by decreasing the number of cars.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1160-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-245-celebrities-are-more-famous-for-their-glamour-and-wealth-than-for-their-achievements",
Essay 1352:
	It is true that most of the celebrities are known for their luxurious lifestyles than for their performance or talents these days. Many people think that this kind of attitude is not a good example for the young generation. To a certain extent, I would agree that this kind of behaviour would be a bad example for the society, but there are other famous people are popular due to their outstanding accomplishment.
	On the one hand, it is a fact that many famous people become popular due to their fancy lifestyle, instead of their outstanding achievement these days. Their acting talent might be standard or below the average, but they are making sensation to the public by showing their wealth and glamorous lifestyles. One of the examples would be Kim Kardashian who is famous for her reality television program, whereas it mostly shows her luxurious mansion, party and shopaholic lifestyles and less of her acting. It is believed that the behaviour would be a negative influence for the young people as it teaches them about hedonistic lifestyle.
	On the other hand, there are celebrities who are popular for their incredible acts or outstanding performance. These people have shown to the world that they have reached success due to strong determination and hard work, and the public always recognise them for their masterpiece of arts and great achievements. One of the examples would be the legendary English footballer David Beckham. He was not only a good athlete but also became the model of some sports apparels. Although David Beckham sometimes had shown his glamorous lifestyle, but he had also shown to the public that he was a good football player. He had informed in his biography that to achieved success, he had to work hard in his young age, as he had to practice in doing penalty kick for around 1000 kick per day consistently. These kinds of celebrities are worth to be followed by the young generation.
	In conclusion, many famous people are well known for their wealth and luxurious style, instead of their achievement and it would be a negative example for the young age people. To a certain point, I would disagree with the opinion, since there are other celebrities who are famous due to their great talent and performance. In my opinion, I think the public should be more selective in choosing their role models, not just in front of the camera, but we should also see from their personal life as well.
Essay 1353:
	Fame and fortune are largely dependent on the hard-work, persistence, luck and creativity displayed by individuals of a society. These qualities often make them very famous and popular that the whole nation becomes anxious and curious just to get their glimpse or an autograph. Few people believe that people are popular due to their glamour and rich lifestyle. They claim that youngsters should not follow their footprint because they may lead them astray and I don’t agree fully with this proclamation. This essay will analyse the merits and demerits of idealising celebrities before presenting a conclusion.
	Famous people such as movie or sports stars can be a role model for the young people of a society. Idealising and treating them as their idol can help them to achieve their required goal in life. Following their footprints can result in exploring their own talent which can further showcase marvels and brilliance. Their creativity, innovation and display of their skills and abilities inspire adolescents to bring change in their life for good. For instance, legendary Amir Khan, the famous Bollywood celebrity, is known for his inspirational and creative movies but  not for his wealth or attractive personality. Adolescents copying his qualities and attributes have promoted strong moral and ethical values in a society.
	On the contrary, few people believe that following superstars and famous people displaying negativity can mislead young people of our society. Proponents of this viewpoint believe that inspiring from their negative roles and displaying the same act at home or in streets can have a severe impact on the society. Moreover, celebrities are often found in smoking advertisements, charged with drugs and other criminal activities, youth following their path can result in the destruction of ethical values of a society. For instance, Sanjay Dutt, Bollywood Actor is well known for his money and roles as a villain, his terrorist acts in different movies have given rise to violence and crime in streets of Mumbai, all these were committed by adolescents for thrill and adventure.
	To recapitulate, the aforementioned provides plausible arguments in favour of both views. There is no doubt that famous people have their influence, as youth is not mature and in the growing phase of their life. However, one should not criticise the celebrities as it depends on the young people how they perceive and take it forward.
Essay 1354:
	It is certainly true that today more TV and movie personalities are better known for their glamorous look and wealth rather than their accomplishments. This will probably have a negative impact on gullible young individuals but not for the critically thinking teenagers.
	The primary reason to agree with this statement is that minors are gullible. They are easily taken into those who they watch in television, movie or even in advertisements. For instance, Philippine presidential sister and TV and movie superstar, Ms. Kris Aquino is the most admired especially for the Filipino adolescents, and at the same time most dislike celebrity in the country. She came from a very powerful political family, but she uses her wealth for the sake of glamour through liposuction and spending too much for expensive branded products such as Louis Vuitton, Chanel and Hermes. This will perhaps affect believing younger people in a negative way because she is actually showing that it is alright to spend too much money for manipulating God-given body and for unnecessary costly things.
	On the other hand, not all young ones are credulous; most of them are critical thinkers. So they are wisely enough not to look just the allurement and richness of TV and commercial stars but to focus their notable achievements. For example, the international boxer figure, Emmanuel "Manny" Pacquiao who was then a typical Filipino poor man, and became an extremely wealthy boxing man because of his undeniably perseverance and dedication. These are the qualities some youths in the Philippines are trying to emulate
	In conclusion, I think that in my country, there are more discerning younger people than unwise ones. So they are not easily affected by just the celebrities' beautiful aura and wealth. They know which one to be emulated and that is the figure's good qualities.
Essay 1355:
	Mass media enabled inviting fame to those who have a commanding presence and dominant influence, best of whom are celebrities. People follow their leads as their graceful lives set bars for glory, far less than their own achievements. As this needs imperative attention, I think it shall take a while for this concern to be addressed.
	Marked by their elusive beauties, celebrities hail in all forms of media; thus, people only see their outer sophistication. Nonetheless, their achievements are commonly left unnoticed. This is mainly due to idolatry where beauty is considered an investment. Hence, in today's era, a person need someone to look up to and is perfect enough to stand out among the rest. This notion is even exacerbated by the media, to which they preserve one's outer elements as priorities.  For instance, adverts hire celebrities whose commanding influence hypnotises others to follow. This is quite hard to control since creativity is companies' best shot.
	Notwithstanding the attention that artists' glamour and richness are getting, this creates a notion to people's mind to achieve something rather than to stay mediocre and plebeian. However, the point of losing one’s sight towards achievements is getting into trouble. This create a bad impact to our society since people no longer feel the hunger to do the best in their own fields instead, they want to become gorgeous, rather than a winner, because it is perceived as a trend way more than the other.
	By and large, I think it has both positive and negative remarks. Albeit the fact that one is given more importance than the other, still, people consider a point of reference for standards. The drawbacks may outweigh the good points, I believe that general trends be acknowledged on their own.
Essay 1356:
	It is an unfortunate reality of today's world that celebrities are cherished and celebrated, not for their achievements, but merely for their fame and wealth. Youth, in particular, views such worldly possessions of celebrities as the highest mark of human achievement. No wonder this trend has devastating effects on the younger generation. To prove this, one has to analyse how youth perceives celebrities' success in general and the fact that many amongst them don't pose the right kind of image for youth to look up to.
	Firstly, very few young people realise that all the fame and glory that the celebrities get to enjoy is never achieved overnight, rather it is all blood, sweat and tears. It takes years and years of struggle to get to that point, which many youngsters choose not to go through, rather, they look for shortcuts towards success. Thus, as a result, they are overcome with procrastination and laziness, which is a direct consequence of idealising the materialistic possessions of their ideals.
	Secondly, one should consider the fact that a number of superstars in the entertainment business are infamous who should not be looked up to in any way. For instance, musicians who use extremely obscure lyrical themes in their music, or the actors working in biographical movies dedicated to serial killers etc. These instances show that when youth venerates such forms of entertainment, they are somehow led to believe that they can also become as famous and successful merely by imitating their so-called ideals. Hence, the negative influence of such a trend is obvious.
	Having analysed how glorifying the rich people, not for their hard-earned achievements, but merely for their worldly possessions, can affect youth's perception of success, it is proven that this tendency does set a bad example. It is highly recommended that youth should be encouraged to realise that a man's worth should not be judged by his possessions, rather by the journey he goes through to achieve those possessions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1159-university-education-to-help-graduates-get-better-jobs",
Essay 1357:
	Higher education plays a pivotal role in an individual's professional life. Many people are of the opinion that the role of university education is to merely facilitate a graduate's job hunting endeavours. Others, however, believe that the beneficial ramifications a university can provide for its students are many. This essay analyses both points of view. I believe that besides helping graduates find better jobs, a university can do much more.
	On the one hand, the primal objective of any university is to award a successful candidate with a professional degree. Although a degree may not guarantee a job, it is nevertheless necessary, as employers will not hire an individual without the right kind of academic qualifications. So a university degree increases the job prospects of individuals, and this is why people are inclined to believe that this is the only objective a university is supposed to fulfil. For instance, more than 80% of parents in South Asian countries believe that their children should have university degrees for the sake of getting a better job.
	On the other hand, many believe that a degree is just one of the many benefits a university can offer. A university does improve many soft skills of its learners, such as confidence, empathy, delegation, observation, imagination, responsibility, planning, analysis, problem-solving skills and many more - the importance of which for personal, professional and social success are undeniable. These days, many employers seek not only applicants' academic qualifications but also important soft skills. These soft skills help people thrive in their personal life, contribute better to society and the nation. Thus university education goes beyond preparing young minds for their careers. 
	To conclude, it is clear from the above discussion that universities emphasise developing their learners' overall skills - including academic, professional and personal skills, that are required for success in life while also becoming better citizens.
Essay 1358:
	Tertiary education, even though is directed towards lucrative employment opportunities for the learners, have a diverse facet. It aims at more than just preparing participants for jobs. This essay discusses how university education helps build a better career and also offers many extensive applications towards personal growth and social benefits.
	To commence with how university education helps learners get better jobs after graduating from university, it is undeniable that most lucrative job applications demand at least a university degree. For example, most prestigious jobs that come with better job security and pay scale have higher job requirements, and without university educations, it is difficult to apply for such jobs, let alone secure one. As universities teach pupils the subject matter knowledge extensively and help them learn some important soft skills, they get ready to take the professional challenges more adeptly than their counterparts. Moreover, both in developed and developing countries, postgraduates are able to command a considerable higher salary at their workplace when compared to employees with just a high school diploma. Finally, some highly respected and demanding professions, like those of doctors, pilots, engineers, architects and scientists can only be pursued, after graduating from the respective university courses. Considering all these aspects, it is undeniable that university education is perceived as a means of better employability.
	However, apart from preparing learners to secure lucrative and prestigious jobs after graduating, tertiary education also benefits the nation by creating educated societies, containing an immense pool of forward-thinking and enlightened individuals, who can contribute towards social development by their respective expertise. They become the leaders of tomorrow and their decisions and actions shape the community, society and the whole country. As universities have taught them skills that are useful to lead those positions, tertiary education, directly and indirectly, is immensely benefitting the country. For example, most leaders and entrepreneurs in my country are graduates of different universities and they are contributing to the development of nations from the skills they have learned from their university education. Finally, numerous long-lasting friendships, business partnerships and courtships also bloom from the university campus life that economically supports the nation.
	To conclude, apart from generating healthy employment, university education serves individuals, communities and society to a great extent. So it has great social and individual significance as well.
Essay 1359:
	Many people have argued about the function of university study. A group of people believe that studying in the university help graduate students in obtaining prestigious jobs, while others think that university study offers much wider positive experiences beside getting better jobs. The following paragraphs will explain in details about both opinions, but I do believe that undergraduate or post graduate studies have many advantages.
	On the one hand, it is a fact that one of the aims of university study is to assist the graduates in obtaining better jobs. Institutions are hoping that the curriculum, program and tutorial sessions that are prepared and set by them would be useful for their graduate students in the workplace. Besides that, certain kinds of highly paid jobs require the candidate to be highly educated or have a university degree. For example, to become an external auditor in one of the big four international accounting firms such as Price Water House Coopers, the candidate should have a bachelor degree in accounting and obtained certified public accountant certificate. Since it is a mandatory requirement, many of the young people have enrolled in the university in order to get that elite and prestigious job. Therefore a lot of people believe that the main purpose of studying in university level is to get better jobs.  
	On the other hand, another group of people believe that university study offers other kinds of positive experiences for students themselves and communities as well. Firstly, by studying in the university, students would have more friends, since many universities are accepting students from various local areas and some even from overseas. Therefore, students would have the chance in expanding their networks and learning new languages and cultures as well. Secondly, studying in the university also bring benefits for the community and society. University offers various kinds of positive activities for their students which are also useful for the neighbourhood. For example, many medicine schools offer free medication consultation for the poor people who live in the surrounding area which is conducted by their students.
	In conclusion, some people believe that university study brings much wider benefits for the students besides getting better-paid jobs, but others disagree with it. In my point of view, I do agree that the aim of studying in the university should not be only for getting jobs, but also for networking and socialising as well.
Essay 1360:
	Today, education has become the vital part of our life. People are opting for higher and higher qualifications these days so that they can get better jobs in future. Along with better job prospectives, there are also other benefits of acquiring university education. In this essay, I will discuss some of them.
	Knowledge & learning help individual shape his future and makes him the respected person in the society. Gaining university degree not only provides the individual with the opportunity to earn more, but also increases his/her value in the society. The person becomes both socially and economically an ideal citizen which today the society demands. S/he gains self-confidence, a better personality which is acceptable in the society.
	Education in formal institutes like colleges and universities offers a student to expand his/her horizon of knowledge and experience. S/he can learn about diverse cultures, manner and other important aspects of life.
	Furthermore, enrollment in the university programs increases the person's understanding and knowledge; thereby, making him/her more efficient in his work and building a good career. For example, a university graduate has better ideas to run a company effectively and this quality can impress his employer and lead to his promotion in future. Higher education also leads to a healthy lifestyle. Educated people are more conscious about their health than the uneducated one. Last but not the least, obtaining a university degree raises the individual's status a step higher.
	To conclude, my opinion undoubtedly is in the favour of acquiring higher studies to build up a good career as well as to shape the individual's personality which is also beneficial for the betterment of the society. 
Essay 1361:
	The role that university education plays in a person’s life and in society is often a debated topic. Some argue that the main purpose of university education is to enable graduates to land better jobs, while others contend that university education has a wider array of benefits for both individuals and society. Both sides of this debate will be analysed in this essay before a reasoned conclusion is drawn.
	On the one hand, some believe that tertiary education has paramount importance in helping graduates finding rewarding jobs. For example, to practice audit in the UK, a person has got to have a certification awarded by one of the recognised professional bodies such as the ACCA. Without a degree from such an institute, it would be impossible to be employed in the profession of auditing. Thus, it is obvious why this point of view has garnered support.
	On the other hand, many opine that university education has a much wider role to play in both the person’s life and in society. For instance, many British universities have included ethics as a compulsory subject in all of their courses. As a result, university graduates are likely to be savvy of their moral responsibilities and thus can discharge them in a better way. Hence, it is clear why many people support this stance.
	Although both sides of this argument have indisputable virtues, however, it is felt that higher education plays a much more significant role than merely assisting the graduates in finding better employment. It is hoped that education will continue to refine the characters of both the individuals and the nations in coming decades.
Essay 1362:
	On the one hand, many people believe that the main goal of college studies to get a better job. This thought has been generally accepted by the public, as many companies are only hiring people who have obtained certain degrees. For example, it is common that multinational oil companies such as Shell, Chevron or Caltex will only recruit new staffs who have obtained their bachelor degree, while those who have no degrees will only be hired as general labours in small factories. As a consequence, many university students only focus on their academic studies and do not participate in any extracurricular activities, as they believe that those programs are not important.
	On the other hand, another group of people think that university studies give wider benefits to their students besides the career purpose. Firstly, university studies give the students a chance to enhance their talents in other fields, beside their academy studies. For instances, it is common that universities are arranging sports activities such as basketball or football. Many students have experienced the advantage of this program, which has helped them in becoming professional athletes such as Michael Jordan or Grant Hill. Secondly, universities also provide social clubs such as a speech or a leadership club which are useful for the students. Students who join these clubs will experience a lot of benefits as they learn how to interact with other people, deliver attractive presentations and how to lead an organisation. Therefore many campuses are organising and arranging these extracurricular activities and persuading their students to get involve with one of the clubs.
	In my opinion, although it is undeniable that the main aim of studying in university is to get a better career, I do believe that other activities that provided by the campus are also beneficial for the students. And I think that students should have a proportionate time between academic study, extracurricular activities and social life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1158-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-243-the-world-is-experiencing-a-dramatic-increase-in-population",
Essay 1363:
	For the past few decades, planet earth is observing a significant rise in world population which is very alarming. Substantial increase in population is also causing problems in growing countries. This essay will explain some of the problems caused by overpopulation and will recommend few possible remedies to overcome this issue.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1157-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-242-animals-should-not-be-exploited-by-people-and-that-they-should-have-the-same-rights",
Essay 1364:
	It has become a debatable topic about the exploitation of animals by mankind. Some people believed that animals should not be exploited and should be treated fairly by human beings. In contrast, others think animals should be utilised to assist humans in various kinds of ways, such as the source of food or for medical testing. The following essay will discuss both views in details, but in my opinion, I believe that animals can be used as the source of food or to assist human beings in the proportionate way and human should treat them properly.
	On the one hand, a group of people believe that mankind does not have the rights to exploit animals, as they are also living creatures. It is true that animals live by following their instinct, but they have the same feeling as human beings, therefore it would not be fair for mankind to exploit them. In several cases, it has been reported that some of the cows had cried before they were slaughtered in the slaughterhouse, which means that they also had the same feeling as human beings. In another reported cases, some of the animals was treated poorly by their masters, though they had been exploited heavily and made them sick or injured.
	On the other hand, it is undeniable that mankind needs the assistant of animals in various kinds of ways. Firstly, some animals are needed by humans to assist them in producing and providing foods. In many countries, cows, buffalos or horses are used by farmers to cultivate their farming areas, and some dairy farms animals such as chicken and sheep are slaughtered for their meats. Without the existence of these animals, there would be a humanity issue about the lack of food supplies and starvation for mankind. Secondly, some animals are used in certain scientific experiments or medical testing for the sake of humanity. Several new drugs are being tested in some mice or monkeys before they are being tested on human beings. Although it might seem as an inhuman act, but these experiments have saved thousands of human lives.
	In conclusion, people have different opinions about the exploitation of animals. Some people agree with the statement but others disagree with it. In my opinion, I think the employment or the usage of animals to help human beings is not a problem, as long as we exploit them in a proportionate way. For example, as many farmers use dogs as their assistant in their field and the dogs should be treated and fed properly.
Essay 1365:
	There have been lots of debates about animal rights in different societies over last decade and sometimes we watch or hear from media that a group of people are protesting in each corner of the world to protect animal rights. However, this group believes that animals should not be  endangered by humans, while some others point that human needs are more important and people should be allowed to use animals for their different purposes. Therefore, this essay has tried to cover both of mentioned views and would suggest a good way to solve the issue.
	According to most of the history documents, the human has employed animals to have a better life from the time that civilisation has come to existence. In fact, the skin of animals has been considered as the first material for clothing industry and human has used the meat of them as a delicious food. These days, people spend money for these purposes and in addition scientists conduct most of their biology experiments on animals to find cures for illnesses.
	Some people worry about the mentioned trend as many animals’ species have been extinct because of exploiting them by the human. Actually, they believe that the God has created animals to live and human shouldn’t kill them or destroys their life places for his needs. So, if no step is taken for this situation, our planet has no place for animals and we just can see animals in zoos which will be another way of employing animals by the human.
	By contrast, some other argues that the God has created animals for human better life and it is inevitable that people use animals for their targets. In other words, it is such a life law that always the stronger kill the weaker for continuing the life and in the forest, wild animals kill other for food as human do it for his purposes. Therefore, human should exploit animals for food, clothes and to develop the science and no other way can be taken.
Essay 1366:
	The animal is one of the living things, like the human. Some people believe that animals should be kept and treated well because they have the same rights as the human. Other people think that animal should be used for food, clothes, education, and research purposes. From my point of view, animals bring many advantages to the human life. But it does not mean human can treat them badly and even do exploitation.    
	As God creature, animals live and they have the same feelings like humans do, like pain, suffering, frustration, happiness, etc. People who advocate animal rights think that animals are equal as the human, so they deserve the same treatment.  People must not use animals for their necessity. For instance, using animals for experiments, using them for the entertainment business, killing them for foods or making clothes and many others is inhuman. These activities not only hurt the animals but also may destroy the balance of nature. In this case, people with this point of view believe that exploitation and violence in animals are cruel behaviour.  
	In contrast, some people argue that animals are created to fulfil human needs. They have a lot of benefits for human life. Firstly, animals can be used for education. Many scientists utilise animals for their research, like biology or medical study. It can really help people to enrich their knowledge about the earth phenomena and also to find new medications for helping the humans. Secondly, animals are really important as food sources. They can provide human nutrition. For example, fishes, crabs, lobsters, and meats are containing protein which is needed for human health.  
	In conclusion, I believe that animals give many benefits for humans. They can help improving human life, especially provide food. However, people should treat them in good ways. I agree that animals deserve to be treated well but it does not mean that they must be treated as equal as humans.
Essay 1367:
	Since prehistoric era, animals have been widely used by humans and in different ways to fulfil several needs. They have provided main sources of food, clothes, transportation and other tools largely used for the well-being of humankind. Yet in the modern world, animals still offer an efficient and indispensable mean for scientists to develop killing edge vaccinations. Whether to ban the exploitation of animals in general or to continue profiting from them for the betterment of people's lives still a matter of dispute. I personally believe that animals' use in our lives should be strictly controlled.
	In favour of securing the same rights as humans, some claim that animals should be treated in a moral and ethical way. They consequently require to stop slaughtering sheep and cows, for instance, simply to provision eatable meat. They additionally argue that though animals are driven by instinct rather by brain like humans, they still are living creatures and should enjoy their lives in peace.
	On the other side, supporters of exploiting animals for the good of mankind evaluate their use in our lives as essential in different aspects. Firstly it is suspicious that humans may survive by merely rely on vegetable sources of food even though this is not impossible.
	Secondly, it would be quite impossible to keep the pace of development in medicine, especially to counter epidemic diseases, if we restrain the scientists from experiencing on animals. However, testing each and every new drug on humans is unethical and inhuman.
	To conclude, despite the unstoppable voices against the exploitation of animals, in general, it would not be easy for humans to evolve without utilising animals, however, humans should control this utilisation and regulate it firmly. Miss using animals like in circuses, zoos or illegal competitions should be completely prohibited since those activities are solely aiming fun and mere financial benefits and disregarding animals' suffering.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1156-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-241-it-is-important-to-use-leisure-time-for-activities-that-improve-the-mind",
Essay 1368:
	Many people believe that it is significant using spare time for things that enhance the mind, for instance, reading and doing word puzzles. The others think that it is vital to relax the mind during spare time. In my opinion, I agree that people should use leisure time for activities which improve the mind.
	In one hand, some people have very exhausting jobs. Therefore, they would like to relax during leisure time, so they do not want to do anything within this time. They think they need to rest. Moreover, many people are lazy, for this reason, they do not keen to do activities to improve the mind. For instance reading a book and doing sudoku puzzles.
	On the other hand, many people have stressful jobs too, but they like to enhance the mind. Therefore, they do many things within leisure time such as reading a novel, solving puzzles, doing exercises which are useful for improving the mind. I think that people who utilise spare time doing activities that boost the mind are more successful than others who love to use spare time for relaxing.
	Finally, in my opinion, people should use their leisure time to improve the mind. For this reason, people should do anything which is useful for enhancing the mind. Moreover, ı would argue that people should be hard working not to be idle. So they always do something to be more successful. Furthermore, I think some activities are so relaxing while they improve the mind. Such as doing sudoku puzzles.
	In conclusion, ı agree that people should do activities that improve the mind during leisure time. because, while that they are performing activities for improving the mind, the activities can contribute to job achievement. Moreover, I think, leisure time should be used effectively since it is so precious.
Essay 1369:
	Nowadays people are divided on the issue how to utilise leisure time effectively. One line of thought believes there should be mind-twisting activities to develop mind but on the other hand, there are those who affirm with this notion that it is better to rest .I am partial accord with this ideology. In following paragraphs, I will shed light on arguments to supporting my views.
	To launch into the topic, as according to some people rest is necessary to keep our mind fresh and healthy and up to some extent it is right. Giving rest to mind revitalise it, helps to think better. Moreover, as our body is not a machine, so respite is mandatory. 24 hours use of mind can cause stress and many types of health maladies. So up to some extent ,it is mandatory to take a respite for some time.
	On the flip side, in the modern era, cut throat competition is going on in every domain, so developed minds can attain success. So these types of activities play a pivotal role in life. Activates like reading books can also play a role in broadening our knowledge, which will be helpful in later life. It can open new vistas of employment and opportunity. By solving puzzles and playing brain games, it escalates creative power of our mind, a level of thinking also develop in an effective manner.
	At the end of the discussion, after analysing of arguments, both sides have their reasons for their arguments. Rests, as well as the development activities, are both are equally important. At last, I am in favour of both of these. I would suggest a good balance of taking rest and engaging in mind enhancing activities in leisure time for any individual.
Essay 1370:
	Currently, what we should do in leisure time for the well-being has been a matter of public attention in this contemporary life. It is believed that doing some leisure activities will enhance people’s frame of mind. Diametrically, opposed to this, some people put forward the idea that the rest will be good for our mind. As far as I am convinced that the former opinion should receive more support.
	Central to this idea is the argument that for most people, the benefit of spending spare time for doing some recreational activities, such as reading and doing word puzzle is to promote brain’s ability, which will enable them to become more intellectual and brilliant. The key explanation to this could be that evidence in favour of playing puzzles and answering IQ quizzes is found in much research which reveals that these activities will boost human mindset effectively and logically.
	Another noticeable justification is that leisure pursuits such as reading books and writing diary or novel will drive people further toward enriching their horizon and knowledge as well as cultivating their critical thinking. For example, in some developed countries, the governments have encouraged their citizens in creating the reading habit by establishing public libraries and e-libraries with a mixed variety of books.
	It is also true that refreshing mind by rest is particularly important for people’s living, which can make it possible for human to relax and unwind after long working time. If we do not pay enough attention to rest and sleep, it will be likely to make us feel exhausted and irritable. However, leisure activities are more important for most people.
	To recapitulate, the main advantage of spending spare time for doing leisure pursuits is to improve our frame of mind and thus make us develop IQ ability well. Meanwhile unwinding after hard work and study is not crushed aside.
Essay 1371:
	It is generally accepted that we all require leisure time to recover from the hassle of works and everyday life. There are many ways individuals can spend their spare time. Few people believe the playing scrabble or reading a novel in free time is the best approach as it progresses mind, however, others believe that we should give rest to the brain. This essay will analyse both views before drawing a conclusion.
	On the one hand, people relax by playing sports, watching movies, playing scrabble and so on. They say that these physical and mental activities serve as a tonic and refresh them to face new challenges. For instance, people who are largely involved in indoor work like Computer Operator or Radar Operator spent most of their time in front of a computer screen and for them to go outside in fresh air, stretching their muscles, playing sports in spare time could ease the workloads and reduces mental pressures.
	On the other hand, few people believe that it is good to give rest to mind then involving in mind games and other physical activities. They say that taking a power nap, relaxing on a rocking chair or spending sometimes at the beach as a silent observer would help them to energise their brain and to remain healthy. For instance, people who are involved in outdoor work like cargo loader, courier delivery and so on prefer to spend their leisure time relaxing on a sofa or bed.
	Although the above look is a solid evidence for both sides of the argument, I personally believe that it should be up to people to decide what is best for them in leisure time that can help them to relax and remain healthy.
Essay 1372:
	There is a great shift in people's lifestyle over the last few years. These days they involve themselves in hectic work routine and have very less time for leisure activities. However, leisure time is essential to ease tension and to get refreshed and energetic. Some people argue that leisure time can be utilised efficiently by doing mind booster type activities. Others state that after busier schedule, one should relax their mind. I believe that leisure time provides us opportunities to further enhance our knowledge and mind.
	Activities like reading, playing puzzle games etc. are the best use of spending leisure time. One cannot deny about the numerous benefits of reading. All the scientists and scholars used to read books in their leisure time. It not only increased our knowledge bur also enable us to draw our own observation under the light of reading materials. Furthermore puzzle games contribute a lot in making mind sharp and efficient.
	Nowadays, the lifestyle of people has dramatically changed because of the economic crisis and recession. People get involve in multiple jobs in order to earn their living. So it is mandatory to have peace and rest of mind by doing activities such as listening music, watching television and doing physical activities. It will help them in easing tension and make them energetic for their future work.
	In conclusion, I would like to say that constructive activities in leisure time could contribute immense benefits to us. By doing these activities one can gain plenty of knowledge which would definitely help them in their coming life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1155-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-240-government-investment-in-the-arts-such-as-music-and-theatre",
Essay 1373:
	As the most of the countries’ revenue is collected from the public through the taxation system, it is imperative that governments spend the available fund for the most effective public services of the nation which is beneficial to society at large. Some people believe that governments should allocate sufficient fund for promoting music and arts as these kinds of entertainment activities help adults as well as children to get much relaxation, reduce their tensions and stresses in their busy day to day life. However, from my point of view, countries should employ most of their funds in important public services such as education, health and transport systems rather spending money on entertainment activities as this sector is less beneficial to the public than that of the important the three sectors mentioned above.
	The most important sector of the economy is the education as the development of in this sector is one of the crucial requirements for a sustainable growth of a country in a long run. The governments all over the world have the responsibility to ensure that every citizen of the country is educated, at least to read and write. The investment in this sector will be in the form of establishing more schools, universities and vocational training centres for the school drop-outs and also providing scholarships for continuing higher education.
	The next essential sector of the economy is the health. It is vital that everyone in the society has the means to get the basic health benefits. Governments can invest in the health sector in many ways. The medical practitioners should be taken care by providing them with the sufficient remuneration and benefits so that the important skill migration in the medical field of the country could be avoided. Also, the authorities can educate the general public and implement many vaccination programs across the countries to eradicate many diseases such as polio, chicken pox and malaria.
	The last but not the least significant sector of the country is the public transportation system. States’ funds should be deployed in putting up proper transport network systems such as the building of metro-train facility around the city. More lanes on the highway roads can be built to facilitate the car-pooling for the commuters. This facility will reduce the carbon fuel emission and helps to reduce the global warming.
	In conclusion, governments should spend a major portion of their funds on highly demanding public-service sectors such as health, education and public transportation rather than spending a huge money on the entertainment sectors such as theatres and music.
Essay 1374:
	It is certainly understandable that government should start looking at ways of improving their public facilities to a sustainable development. Government have to make a real innovation in keeping the stability of the society, which means that people should get good service from their government. There was a statement said that government should utilise the money for public importance, and do not use this money for other things like arts (music and theatre). Personally, I disagree with that statement. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support my opinion.
	Nowadays, to face the period of development, as a country they have to compete with other countries. Arts can offer a positive contribution to the development of the quality of life as a country. I believe that each country has their ability then they can compete with the others. For example, recently there are some world competitions related to ‘singing’ such as World Choir Competition, ASIAN Idol, etc. Every country sends their best participants to follow the competition. Two years ago, Indonesian delegate taking part in World Choir Competition held on 15–17 March 2013 at Belgium. They have to compete with 57 countries, and finally, they got gold medals for several categories.
	In addition, I think that if a government invests some money to arts sector, it will create many advantages for the country itself. For instance, Indonesia has talented people in painting field, it means that they can make a beautiful creation to sale. One of popular painting is ‘Monalisa’ drawing. The Painting already became everlasting painting because it was drawn by the  talented person, which the painter already creates many advantages for himself and his country. Another essential thing is people have to make a good teamwork with the government to produce huge advantages related to arts creations.
	In conclusion, the government should invest some money to improve arts creation because it has a big opportunity to make a country more successful.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1154-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-239-internet-and-computers-will-ever-replace-the-book-or-the-written-word",
Essay 1375:
	It is true that information technology has grown rapidly in the past few years, and many people predict that it will develop faster in the future. Some people believe that print out books and articles will be replaced by computer devices in the future. To a certain extent, I would agree that the number of printed books will decrease significantly in the future, but I do believe that hardcopy books will continue to exist in the future.
	On one hand, it is a fact that with the existence of the computer and the internet technology, people can obtain a lot of information. People would just open the device, connect it to a network and they could search all articles that they need. There are tens of thousands of websites which provide valuable information such as www.national geographic.com or www.discovery.com. Besides that, many news corporations also provide electronic newspapers these days like CNN or BBC, which can be read in the notebook, tab or smartphone. As a result, many people prefer to read the information from the electronic devices rather than to purchase the print out one.
	On the other hand, it is predicted that print out books, newspapers or magazines will continue to exist in future, though the number will decrease drastically. Firstly, not everyone likes to read an article through the gadget directly, since they think it is uncomfortable. They believe that the radiation of computer screen would cause eyes irritation, and give a negative effect on their eyes' health. Secondly, it is undeniable that the development of internet technology is not equally spread all over the world. The online services would only be available in advance countries and in some major cities of developing and poor countries. As a consequence, people who live in the rural or remote areas will still need the print out version.
	In conclusion, although it is true that the number of electronic books and news has increased considerably in the recent years, but the existence of the hardcopy version will be irreplaceable. As some people do not feel comfortable in reading an article directly from the computer screen, and others who live in the countryside might not have the access to the technology.
Essay 1376:
	It is certainly true that these days, as technology advances, we are definitely drifting further towards the internet for our research needs. But I think that computer technology will never ever be a replacement of books and written information because they are the main tools used for our reference purposes and education.
	It is true that as technology advances and the net becomes more and more efficient; it is gaining a reputation for being the first and sometimes the only source to go when we need to search a subject. However, as the web has a large base of information, locating exactly what we need is sometimes quite a trying task. In some instances, we find that it probably would have been easier to have gone to the library and used a book. Another problem we are faced with while searching online is whether or not the information is correct. We sometimes can be deceived by information on a website and be unaware that what we are writing down is incorrect.
	So books will never ever be replaced even if there are lots of people using the cyberspace. This is due to the fact that books are the main tool of education and are commonly used for our leisure time. In fact, books have been with us for many thousands of years and usually used for our enjoyment purposes. For instance, reading stories in books is an ancient pastime, and although the variety of activities can undertake in our spare time has increased dramatically over the years, it is still quite common to read books. Of course, they are not only used for our pastimes, but for our studies too. They play a major part in our primary, secondary and in tertiary education.
	In conclusion, I think that as computer age takes over, we may use books less, especially for information purposes. However, books as we know them will not disappear; they will never ever be replaced by the information in the screen because they are used in our leisure time and the main tool for our education.
Essay 1377:
	As the word is moving towards the modern technology and the era of advancement day-by-day and modern technology has occupied every bit of our life as we have everything available on the internet or we can say that now a day things are just on the distance of one click.
	the internet and modern technology make most of the things easy for us and due to this, a person can save his precious time. We can connect ourselves with the entire world via the internet. Nowadays everything can easily be searched on the internet including books, movies, games, news, weather news etc. so the person does not need to worry about anything because through modern technology like internet and computers they make everything so easy for us.
	Before the induction of the internet and computers in our daily life, we did not have that many benefits as we are having nowadays so in the past people used to give more importance to the written source of information and mostly people preferred those sources. But as we all know after that much enhancement of modern technology has been done and our life has changed dramatically and it leaves a huge impact on our lifestyle.
Essay 1378:
	Technology and technological inventions appear in different forms. Some parts of it affect the entire human lives and some parts of it function just for a short period of time for some selected part of the world or population. One of the distinctive shapes of technology is the Internet and computers by which our lifestyle is altered every year. Furthermore, it effectuates our source of knowledge. In centuries we just read books to obtain knowledge but computers, especially in recent years, have changed our viewpoints.
	As a direct result of advanced technology, our life became more comfortable than ever before. It is true for every aspect; even reading books and articles and gathering knowledge. Different capabilities of electronic books and websites are tempting enough to commence utilising this technology as soon as possible. For example, the ability to search online and getting necessary information promptly has revolutionised the way we look for something and the way we find the sources of information.
	Furthermore, the capacity of storing a great number of books just on the nail-sized chip has replaced the multistoried library into their online edition. In addition, the cost of reading will reduce due to not making use of physical paper. Along those benefits, we are capable of bringing e-books everywhere we go and this opportunity of portability is unique throughout the history of mankind.
	However, there is a widespread belief that making use of computers in every part of our life is abominable and leads to alienation. Also sometimes the cost of generating e-books is higher than physical books. Moreover, the wasting of energy for storing virtual books on servers is noticeable.
	To sum up, it can be argued that the merits of e-books outweigh its drawbacks and yet we should consider negative aspects and attempt to eliminate them.
Essay 1379:
	Technology has a great impact on our lives. Advancement in technology makes our lives easier than ever before. Internet; the most powerful source of information, is an extreme example for the advancement in technology. It helps us in many ways and in different fields. Moreover, our lives are completely dependent on it now.
	Advancement in technology resulted in inventing computers smaller in size and bigger in their storage capacity. Computers now can do a lot of tasks that were not possible 20 years back due to continuous development in their technology. Among these tasks that related to books and writing, computers can store a lot of books in a small file instead of keeping them on shelves. Furthermore, one can reach the needed information easily through simple computer's find function rather than keep searching for a large collection of books for several hours.
	Finally, in my opinion, countries should try to introduce computers more in their people's life due to its significant positive effects.
Essay 1380:
	The popularity of modern gadgets is increasing day by day all over the world. In my opinion, e-books and news websites will replace printed books and newspaper.
	Firstly, many publishing companies began to sell e-books instead of printed ones. Moreover, especially young people prefer reading e-books instead of reading printed books. They think it is easier and more entertaining compared to reading printed books. Furthermore, many people believe that news on the website is more reliable and speedy updating than newspaper because news can change in a minute but newspaper could not update news every second.
	Secondly, technology is improving amazingly. Therefore, modern gizmos are being updated almost every day. Many technophiles are keeping up with this improvement. Hence, companies are obliged to change their goods. For example, Radical was the most popular newspaper in Turkey, but the publishing company had to switch their marketing strategies. As a result, it decided not to publish the newspaper on paper based last year and embarked on publishing news on the website which is required to pay money in order to read the news.
	The technological advancement in internet and communication technology is offering so much convenient that people are switching their habit to adopt the technology. There are very few young people who would buy a hard copy of a paper or magazine and take all the hassle of going to the store and then purchase it. They are taking advantages of technology and getting these things from their laptop, smartphones and other handheld devices. The popularity of e-book is increasing and more and more people are reading e-books than ever.  
	In conclusion, as it is known, people spend most of their time on the internet. For this reason, they would like to read books, newspapers even play cards on it. Thus, they demand e-books instead of printed ones. In my view, in the future, printed books will be rarely bought and only found in the libraries.
Essay 1381:
	Modern life has brought new tendencies to our lives and one of them is replacing books and papers by files and e-books. It seems that traditional libraries are changing to new digital ones and people are more interested in downloading books and magazines from the internet as digital files instead of purchasing them from a bookstore.
	This is a reality that the mentioned trend is raising in each corner of the world and certainly, IT would be the main resource of information in the future but such as any other phenomena, it is necessary to find the reasons of using the internet more than books as a source of information in many societies.
	Perhaps the most important reason is the price. In other words, when we are purchasing a book or magazine through the internet, we don't pay for papers. By contrast, we would be cost more for papers purchasing from a bookstore. Also, the availability is another reason as we can search the name or the topic of a specific book through some websites such as Google or Yahoo and would find thousands results for that as opposite to spend time and money for finding the book in the market.
	However, some people worry about the effects of reading through computers on eyes health, I think this is less likely these days when the laptop and computer manufacturers are producing new healthy LEDs. But overall, this trend has helped human to save more energy sources and has had a critical role to prevent from deforestation as the wood has been the basic material for producing papers.
Essay 1382:
	From many years, people have been preserving information in written form whether it was written in leather with the help of quill or on paper. But with the modernization and innovation, people are more engaged in getting information from internet and computer. Therefore, with the access of internet and technology, there is always a treat of replacing the book or the written words. I also believe that use of technology will someday replace the written words.
	Firstly, human beings can adapt to changes. In ancient time people used to write on walls and create murals for information then they gradually adopted with writing on leather and then on paper. Nowadays, nobody writes on leathers and walls for daily purpose. Like this, if everyone has access to the internet and computer then the trend of writing information on books and paper will also slowly vanish.
	Secondly, people are more concerned about saving the environment and using paper means cutting trees. Therefore, for preserving environment people are using less paper and printed materials and more relies on soft copies such as word document and computer software which gives them opportunities to correct and re-correct their works without using papers. Besides saving papers, technologies are also cost effective.
	Thirdly, individuals, organisations and companies are preparing reports in the computer and emails are used instead of paper mail. So the use of papers and written words have drastically decreased in last few decades. Similarly, people have also access to tablets, kindles, handy computer and laptop due to which magazine, novel, books and newspapers are now uploaded in electronic form.
	In short, if we see the trends then the use of books has dramatically decreased and if it continues, one day the modern technology will certainly replace the book or the written words.
Essay 1383:
	The developments in computers and the internet have created an impeccable impact on electronic content people produce and consume. The interesting question to address is the capability of digital content to replace the physical books. I strongly believe that technology advancements in web and computers have good chances of replacing written text as the primary source of knowledge leading to better individual and social benefits.
	Firstly, accessibility to knowledge is the main advantage of digital content. For example, any challenged individual has access to electronic content easily in the form of the digital music player like iPod listening to podcasts. In addition, there has been a recent development in the mobile phones with multiple language supports that in combination with the social networking sites like Facebook facilitates the generation of online content in their native languages. Language developments have improved since the invention of speech to text converter software that converts the person's voice into text. Additionally, several people have taken blogging as a hobby that generates a huge amount of electronic content for others to consume.
	Secondly, there has been a change in the teaching methodology giving more importance to the electronic assignments and online lectures. During olden days, students have to attend classroom lectures to understand the subject area but now several university lectures are given online and available to students throughout the day. Buying a physical story book or education related books are becoming outdated, as everyone prefers to buy an electronic version of the book and load it on their e-book readers or tablet computers.
	In conclusion, based on the individual and social benefits created by the digital content and internet, I strongly believe that electronic content with World Wide Web will replace physical books as the primary source of knowledge. 
Essay 1384:
	Undoubtedly, through the last few years, there is a revolutionary progress in technology while the use of computers is getting more and more spread. the internet gets an important role in everyday life by easing the communication between people and countries. As a result, the news spread rapidly throughout the world defeating the borders of distance. For instance, an airplane crushed in Asia is getting known in minutes from people all over the world. Getting information from the internet is not only fast but cost effective as well. For more internet sites it is not necessary to get a subscription to be able to use their services, but even if it required the alternatives are countless.
	On the other hand, books exist for hundreds of years and in my opinion, they are not going to be completely replaced anytime soon. Although the information delivered by them could be anachronistic, there is a certain validation of their content which couldn't be guaranteed by internet sites. Books like encyclopaedia are comprehensive and accessible anytime. Moreover, the cost of a book is generally lower than this of a computer, so it's ideal for less privileged people. For thousands of years, books and written words were the main source of knowledge and it will continue next few hundred years.
	To conclude, from my point of view both technology and traditional books are required for getting full information. Books are more suitable for the fundamental knowledge and internet for the most recent one. Although computers and the internet are getting more and more popular, books are going to keep expanding our knowledge for years to come.
Essay 1385:
	“Books are the best teachers”. This line still holds the truth in current era but with some changes in the way we access the books. With the advancement of technology, internet and computers have become the main source of information and have put in front a very important question. Whether computer and the internet will totally replace books as the form of information?
	From my point of view, it already has replaced books thanks to the benefits it poses over the traditional hand written text. Computers in the form of tablet and phones are more portable and carry loads of information which on paper requires humungous size. Data on computers also gets updated with the help of internet which in the case of books can be done only by purchasing new ones.
	Live instances of this can be found around easily. To illustrate, in schools more emphasis now being put on teaching via computer and internet which is more interactive for students and also does not require them to carry heavy books and notes. Also devices like kindle which is an e-book reader helps people to read for long hours without straining eyes and to carry unlimited number of books at the same point of time which in the case of traditional textbooks required behemoth effort.
	Again, all the renowned publishers all around the world now release the soft copy of their books, magazines and other publications that show the dominance of e-version of print media. The day is not far when people will carry technological device instead of carrying a large number of books with them.
	To conclude, technology has already replaced traditional books and there is nothing wrong in this as technology is an ever changing concept which meant to help us.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1153-societies-are-facing-a-growing-problem-with-obesity",
Essay 1386:
	Over the last few years, obesity has become a serious problem. These days, it affects an increasing number of both children and adults. Causes of overweight must be considered and addressed effectively; otherwise, societies will suffer from even greater health problems. This essay will look at the causes of this problem and make some suggestions about how to tackle it.
	One of the main causes of overweight is the high intake of junk food such as hamburgers, chips, and fried chicken. Many people prefer to have a takeaway meal or pick up a pre-prepared food in the supermarket, which contain high salt and fat, rather than cooking a healthy meal at home. For instance, in the UK, sales of junk food have risen significantly over the last few years. The solution is for the government to increase sales tax on any food that is considered to be unhealthy. This would make consumers decrease their intake of this type of food and start to make the healthy home-made one. People lack the knowledge of food ingredients and their health issues and thus do not make informed decisions while talking foods. Easy access to private cars has reduced the walking and cycling habit of people. The quality and ingredients of quick foods/ fast foods are not strictly monitored by the authority.
	Another problem is that fewer and fewer persons are doing sports. This is because of the high expenses of registration in a gym. For example, the monthly fees of gyms in the UK are around 40 or 50 pounds, which is very difficult to be afforded by many. To address this, the government could assign more money for sports facilities such as gyms to become more affordable. So that many persons would hopefully do sports and consequently start to lose weight.
	To sum up, obesity becomes an increasingly worrying issue affecting a wide range of age groups. In my view, government, parents and school all have a role to play in tackling the problem. Action must be taken urgently; otherwise, our country will face even more serious problems in health.   
Essay 1387:
	As the number of people who are overweight increases from day to day in the majority of countries in the world, it is essential that we consider the reasons for the growth in obesity among both youngsters and grown-ups. This naturally leads us to the question of how should societies treat the people who faced the problem of fatness. In this essay, I will explore the reasons for the situation in question, and try to find out the methods that can be applied to reduce corpulence among the people.
	To begin with, obesity may be viewed as a consequence of a better quality of life. Nowadays, workers earn more money and can afford eating food in the desirable amounts. This is not a problem as long as they are physically active. For instance, the US soldiers are keen eaters but their work requires a lot of energy thus reducing the risk of becoming burly. Therefore, the first step to avoid portliness is to do as many physical activities as you can or simply walk about five kilometres a day.
	Another common reason of why people get stout is the quality of food they consume. It is obvious that humans prefer nutrient products, which often contain insane amounts of fat. I believe that most of us have to change the diet by including more fruits and vegetables into it and replacing meat with fish, which is more contributing to our health.
	Many scientists believe that stress can also cause the wish of devouring more products, especially bakery and sweets. This mainly concerns women rather than men. To avoid this, those who are exposed to stress must find other ways of coping with it. They can relax their nerves by going in for sports, such as swimming and running.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1152-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-237-in-some-countries-children-have-very-strict-rules-of-behaviour",
Essay 1388:
	People in different countries follow and adopt different rules in dealing with their children’s behaviour. There are no laws for this made by any country’s government but this depends on the culture, values and people’s live styles.
	The children who are the future of this world should be taught to follow a set of rules so that they are aware what is good and what will be bad for them. The rules that are meant for their good should be followed in true spirit e.g. how to behave with parents, elders, teachers, friends, siblings etc. as these are the manners that will help them to achieve success and they will ultimately transfer this to their children. These practices are passed and transferred from generations to generations so that the society is developed morally & ethically. Ethical and moral values are very important for any society and without these, a society cannot nourish and go forward.
	Now if children don’t follow the rules the society it cannot run properly. Anxiousness and anxiety will rule and people will be frustrated as their children instead of following rules are disobeying them. This will reflect in lives of people also and their life will be disturbed. I have seen families whose life has been destroyed as their children didn’t listen to them and revolted against their parents /elders. In the most developed nations children in the name of freedom of expression do not listen to their parents and leave them and ultimately the whole family suffers. But the children should have the right to ask about any rule they think is not correct and clarification should be provided to them so that they can accept the rule from their heart.
	 The children should follow in true spirit the rules and regulation made by the society, parents, elders etc. Children don’t have enough awareness to decide about the right and wrong and which rules will help them and which rule if not followed will get them in trouble. The society should explain the children the pro and cons of rules so that children don’t consider the rules as weight on their shoulders and in fact feel proud when they are following the rules.
Essay 1389:
	The period of childhood is the most critical stage in the lives of children. Some people think that children must be monitored and under surveillances during their childhood. Others have no such strict rules upon children. However, for many reasons which will be mentioned below, I strongly believe that children must be controlled by their families.
	The first reason why children have to be put under notice is that they cannot distinguish between what is right and what is wrong. To illustrate, every family is solely responsible for its children behaviour. In other words, their parents must know how and what kind behaviour their children are heading to. Such knowledge will immensely help the family to maintain their children and provide them with a good conduct. Consequently, such children will be of a noble and great behaviour.
	The second reason why children must undergo strict rules of behaviour is that they are the pioneers of future. In other words, children should be taught and instructed with a good pattern of behaviour which appeals to all those around them. Additionally, the family is the first who can implement such way in order to be able to cope with their lives properly. Hence, having obtained and acquired such good behaviour, children are expected to be the future-makers who will excel in their lives.
	To recap, it is without denial that children should be subjected to strict rules of behaviour. This will direct them to the right path and will tremendously contribute in shaping their future. So, every family is advised to do the above in order to produce a promising and noble child whose contribution in society will be of great importance.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1151-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-236-technology-will-completely-replace-the-traditional-teacher-in-the-classroom",
Essay 1390:
	Technology has advanced tremendously and significantly in the last century. This progression is conspicuous in a school-room today. Although some opine that, this technology trend will replace the classic teacher's role, I strongly believe that the position of standard instructor at essence in the educational process. This will be proven by analysing how the teachers are able to cater students' requirements, as well as, catalyse and discipline them.  
	It is agreed that for comprehension aim the ability of selective explanation at paramount importance for various pupils. For instance, students are diverse of their assimilation degree, and the skilled instructor who is capable of fulfilling these varieties of learners need in form of rephrasing or simplifying his conception. Obviously, the computer-based teacher is not aimed at that humankind unique task. Thus, these new devices are not ideal to dismiss the human participation in teaching procedure.
	In addition, motivation and discipline are critical keystones in the educational procedure. This is certainly true in dealing with children who need sensitive approaches to fortify their perceptions and skills. In contrary, the computer-based course is directed to implement in a constant non-interactive procedure. Therefore, human instructors could not be replaced fruitfully with advanced apparatus.
	To put it in a nutshell, though contemporary modern technology has a significant influence on our life, I personally believe that the essence role cannot be simply replaced or subtract in favour of computerised lifestyle. However, we should utilise this equipment in order to reinforce the teacher's contribution in the educational progression. 
Essay 1391:
	In this digital era technology is playing an important role in all major sectors and 'education & teaching' is no exception. It has definitely changed the way we learn and teach. However, there are several reasons that make me believe that technology will never be able to replace our conventional teachers completely.
	Firstly, technology cannot make decisions the way humans do. For instance, in a class, if a student does not understand a topic, a teacher can decide to explain it in a different way or even with a familiar example. Technology cannot relate to our day to day lives. Also, a machine or a software cannot differentiate between good and behaviour and subsequently, cannot handle it with a punishment or a reward. Technology will never be able to handle a class full of kids the way teachers do while being loved, respected and inspiring students at the same time. Every student is different and may need a different treatment which teachers do the best. I believe that technology can help the teachers to teach more efficiently but can never play their role.   
	Secondly, the logical matrix lacks an emotional repertoire. Teachers play a very important role in motivating and guiding students, not only in their academics but also in their personal lives. Technology cannot do that. Unlike machines, teachers can gauge when to be funny, serious or sympathetic. Moreover, though we need to use technology on a daily basis today, not everyone is tech-savvy. I myself still prefer blackboards over slideshows for learning. A complete technology driven classroom seems very mechanical to me.
	All these points fortify my opinion that technology cannot replace teachers. Nonetheless, the way it assists teachers will arguably change over time with new innovations; hopefully only to better our learning experience!
Essay 1392:
	It is undeniable that technology has been increasingly used through the world and also applied in a wide range of field, and it is apparent in the classroom recently as well. In my opinion, it is not possible that technology will totally take the place of the role of traditional teachers in a classroom.
	Teaching is not the only thing that a teacher does in a classroom. In process of teaching, there are plenty things to do such as providing all kinds of supports, supervising their behaviour, directing their studying target and catering all needs of pupils. A very significant aspect of that is to observe closely and focus on the learning process including their feedback and their status. Given that students misunderstand the topic in a classroom, teachers will try their best to rephrase the topic, change the way to make it clear until students can comprehend the content. However, a computerised teacher would be less in-tune with what students need.
	Despite that technology does help students by providing mass information pools which break borders of nation and language, we should consider more about the process of study process in the classroom. Two-way communication of students and teachers build a comfort zone and friendly study atmosphere for each other. If students need help to deal with their academic problems and mental issues, teachers can actively guide them and helps them with their own practical experience which technology would be hard to duplicate it.
	In conclusion, even technology benefits students a lot, it is still quite impossible for it to completely take the place of traditional teachers.
Essay 1393:
	Technology is increasingly being used throughout the world. Thus it is apparent in classrooms as well. It is quite unrealistic that technology will replace teachers in future. This will be proven by analysing how teachers can cater to student needs as well as motivate and discipline them in the classroom.
	An Important factor in teaching is the ability of teachers to shape teaching style as per the students’ requirement. As an example, if a student does not understand any of the topics being taught in the classroom, the teacher can make them understand by rephrasing the topic. The computerised teacher will not be able to understand what the students require and thus technology will not replace teachers.
	Motivation and discipline are key factors in teaching for any student's academic success. This is very important in classrooms as the children need to be taught motivation and discipline very effectively. A teacher only could do this when the student requires it. A computer-based teacher will not be able to accomplish this as there is a judgment needed to understand if the student is acting in an inappropriate manner which teacher could do. Hence it is clear that students need teachers.
	Following the analysis of the ability of teachers catering as well as motivation and discipline to the students, it is clear that teachers are always needed in the classroom for student's success and hence technology will never replace them. In future technology will be used in the classroom by the students, but it will not take over the classroom.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1150-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-235-some-say-you-should-always-marry-for-love",
Essay 1394:
	Marriage is one of the most important ceremonies in human’s life. Many people marry for love while many others marry for money. There are valid arguments for both types of wedding. In this essay, I will discuss both views but in my opinion, people should not consider money as a vital component of the marriage.
	People who oppose wedding for love say that marriages cannot be successful if the couple has a scarcity of money. Money takes the priority and the love flies in the air if people cannot live a comfortable life. Opponents of this view also argue that love is just an emotion and can be developed even after marriage. Having a splendid vacation, enjoying luxurious holidays together are memorable and people fell in love with each other. In old days parents used to choose the life partner for their kids considering their intellect and various factors where money was one of the major deciding factors and even that time marriages were successful. We seldom hear cases of divorce.
	Proponents of love marriages comment that even in difficult situations of the life if spouses understand each other they can mutually work in the adverse condition and resolve the issues. Secondly, the financial condition of people may vary in different stages of life. These marriages will not get affected by the change in economic condition. Finally, love marriages are highly successful as couples do understand each other and they know their compatibility very well before marriage.
	To conclude, getting wed for money or like is an individual decision and may be governed by culture and tradition as well. In my opinion, for successful and happy married life affection is an important factor and people should marry for the love, not money.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1149-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-234-should-mobile-phones-be-restricted",
Essay 1395:
	In today’s world, mobile phones play a vital role in our personal and professional lives for people from all age groups. Certainly, it would be difficult to tackle for everyday tasks in our daily life. Despite this, mobile phones possess a threat to our health and productivity of life.
	Nowadays, everyone has accessibility to mobile phones. Even children use it for multi-tasking functions like internet browsing, playing games etc. In spite of having many uses, it also possesses many disadvantages. Researchers have discovered that mobile phones cause many health problems and can make the loss of memory. Consequently, it affects our productivity of work and is responsible for many health hazards caused due to it. It creates many psychological disorders in people. As a result of this disorder, a low-performance level is observed among working class people in business organisations.
	We all know that mobile phones reduce our efficiency and performance of life. But, still, they cannot be abandoned from our lives. Professionals use mobile phones for work in their daily life. Many people argue that they need mobile phones in case of an emergency. For example, patients having any chronic diseases like diabetes, cardiac arrests. People who are in a difficult situation in remote areas need mobile phones for quick communications. However, use of mobile phones should be restricted to adults like working professionals. Children should not be allowed the accessibility to have a mobile phone.
	In summary, it would be unconvincing to impose restrictions on usage of mobile phones. I believe the mobile phone has become a part of our daily life. Although it has negative impacts on our health and productivity, it outweighs the advantages it serves to mankind and society.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1148-in-many-parts-of-world-there-is-continuous-coverage-of-sport-on-television",
Essay 1396:
	Whether live sports on television avert youngsters from actually playing sports in real life is a controversial issue and deserves a thorough discussion. In my opinion, participating in different sports is far useful than only enjoying it on television, though watching a few games does not hurt. In this essay, I will discuss the view and present my opinion.
	To start with, many sports channels broadcast non-stop sporting competitions and many countries have ongoing tournaments. Young people these days have passions for numerous sports but hardly participate in outdoor sports. They prefer sports channel as part of entertainment rather than encouragement for their sportsmanship skill development. Non-stop sports on TV in a way deter youngsters from becoming sportsmen themselves. For example, more than half of my college friends are big fans of international sports like cricket and football but their personal experience on these games are quite limited. They are better critics of those games than players.
	Only sports channels are not responsible for this decay. The rise of video games and access to gaming consoles have fueled the trend. Furthermore, parents are responsible for this degradation as well. While parents should have encouraged children to play outdoor games, they are contented with the latest PlayStation and Xbox for their offsprings!  
	In conclusion, the reluctance to play games rather than watching sports on TV has been kindled by the endless sporting programmes on TV, parents' apathy and widespread access to gaming devices. No doubt sports on TV can be a good way to enjoy our favourite team's performance but youngsters should not watch it all day long.
Essay 1397:
	Television has become the state of the art entertainment tool and people may subscribe to their preferred channels at a low cost. However, some critics warn that teens would not engage in sports once they start watching sports channel fervently. I personally think that it discourages sports-lovers to play games as the intrinsic issue is whether the youths love sports deeply.
	Firstly, television may alter the teenagers' interests because of the widespread coverage of sports programmes. For example, many youths in my country prefer watching sporting competitions than taking sports in real life. This leads them spending more time in front of a TV set than taking part in outdoor activities.
	In contrast, youths who are the fans of sports may not be influenced by television adversely. For example, a person who favours in watching Liverpool soccer team will be inspired by the team which appears on television and may wish to experience how they play soccer during a competition. In other words, the teenagers may start to get involved in sports due to their admirations towards the sports team. Consequently, television may be a useful tool to arouse the interests of teens having sports.
	It is a basic human nature that they try to mimic something that they enjoy. According to this nature, someone who finds some sort of game interesting on TV would like to play it as well. The broadcast of sports on TV makes these games more popular in many countries and it is natural that people of these areas would spend more time playing these games. People mostly watch interesting and live sports rather than watching all the sports all the time. Sports channel not only broadcast games, they also show programs that make critical analysis and shows the history of the games and these two aspects help the interested youths learn more about the games. While there are plenty of programs that could have negative impacts on the young generation, with the popularity of sports channels, young people watch sports more than those short of negative programs.
	To conclude, the fundamental issue is whether the young treat themselves as spectators or athletes. In the case of the teens imagine themselves as spectators, television may dishearten them from taking part in sports but reversely, it may encourage the youth to start engaging in sports too.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1147-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-232-should-state-museums-charge-visiting-fees",
Essay 1398:
	Globally, every museum charges its visitors for visiting the museums. It creates a difference between have and have not poor sentence formation. Everyone should be given an opportunity to know about his /her native country's culture. Moreover, more numbers of local people visit museums when we make an analogy to people who make special trips to visit them. So, in this way citizens of a nation could also share and understand the heritage of their homeland. Affordability to visit museums should not be hindered just because of financial hurdles. As a result of these museums could have both foreigners and locals visiting them.
	On the other hand, it is quite a difficult task for state museums to maintain and add collections for our cultural heritage. They would have to compete with other necessities of people like education, hospitals etc. for allocation of the budget provided by the government. State museums would face quite a lot of difficulties to renovate and add collections to existing nation's fortune. Moreover, the number of visitors could damage the property of museums. So, the number of visitors should be limited regarding the safety of years old collections of museums. This act is an obstacle for maintenance of museums. Hence, state museums are left with no option of neglecting to charge visitors for their visit.
	In summary, I believe something should be done for citizens of a country in order to recognise the heritage of this nation. Children should be allowed a free entry to museums besides adults should be charged for their visits. Nevertheless, financial factors should not play a dominant role for citizens to notice their homeland's fortune.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1146-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-231-some-people-think-that-men-and-women-have-different-qualities",
Essay 1399:
	Nature has blessed both men and women with individual characters, which set them apart. All these different characteristics enable them to do different tasks according to their affinities. Due to this, some people opine that it would be best for both sexes to involve themselves in those tasks which suit their personality and skill sets. Others, however, think that both are equal and can do each other’s job as efficiently as they can do their own. Therefore, let us analyse the task from both perspectives in order to reach to a relevant conclusion.
	To begin with, it can be said that both males and females have an individual set of characteristics, which enables them to perform well in certain tasks. For example, women are considered exceptionally good at taking care of the household activities and bringing up the children. As most of the women are kind, loving and caring by nature, they are best suited for this job. What is more, they are also seen as worthy of the job of taking care of household activities due to their creativity and organisational skills. Similarly, men also have some special traits attached with their personality. For instance, men are deemed to be strong, confident and decisive. These qualities make it possible for them to give excellent performance in areas such as earning bread and butter for the home and making decisions for the family. Apart from that, they can also support their families in emotional as well as security matters.
	However, even though both genders are best suited for the jobs mentioned above, we cannot ignore the changing trends, which are taking place in modern world. Nowadays, with the spread of education and equal rights, more and more women are breaking the barriers of their home in order to work outside. They can be seen placed at several important positions, from doctors to politicians and they are also performing better than the expectations of most of the people. In the same way, men are also indulging themselves in household tasks by looking after their children and doing household chores. Therefore, it cannot be said that both of the genders are best suitable to do only one type of work.
	Women are performing well in professions like teaching, nursing, marketing and those kinds of jobs suits their natural talents and skills. On the other hand, men can work in a crowd and in places where physical labour is required.
	In the ultimate analysis, it can be said that both men and women have been separated with individual qualities facilitating them with abilities to do several tasks. But, by looking at the current norms, it will be wrong to think that they cannot do each other’s job.
Essay 1400:
	People have different opinions about whether women and men could fit the same type of work or not. Some people argue that both genders have the same capabilities, while others oppose this point of view. This essay will discuss both arguments.
	On the one hand, people who claim  that both men and  women could occupy the same types works, based their idea on the fact that the world has changed, these days more and more women  go outside  to work, and this development  has approved  that women are able to perform  jobs successfully. For instance, many sensitive positions are occupied by women such as politics, teachers and doctors. According to this, it is clear that there is no any difference regarding the gender and the most significant factor is the individual abilities.
	On the other hand, there are people who said that women and men cannot suit the same type of employment. Due to physical and natural differences, women are not able to choose a career in the army, for example, because these types of jobs are quite difficult, and need a stronger body. In contrast ,some jobs are more suitable  for women such as nursing and caring , because  they  have what it is  called  caring nature.
	In conclusion, this essay has looked at both views regarding the abilities to suits in different types of works and gender. It would seem that women and men are capable of having the same type of careers and individual ability is far essential than gender choice.
Essay 1401:
	Some people think that women and men have different strengths and weaknesses and as a result of that some certain jobs are suitable for men and some certain jobs are suitable for women. I do not agree with this opinion.
	Before the Second World War, the labour force was dominated by the males. Female workers could find a very little area in the job market to work but during and after the Second World War producers needed waste amount of labour force to keep their facilities running. Because of a certain number of men was in the military services, they started to hire female workers. Especially in the USA. This was the first time which the female workers show they can do the same job with male workers.
	After the following years, female workers became more qualified and they started to penetrate higher positions. In the seventies and eighties, females were all over the job market and in any position. That shows us that if they have given opportunities, women can do any job which a man can do.
	Some people thought that the women have physical weaknesses according to men and that prevented to do jobs which need physical endurance. That opinion is old fashioned and wrong. In the times of Second World War nearly all the jobs which needed physical endurance were getting done by the women in the USA and also in the USSR- before the Soviet Union had collapsed, even the mining operations were getting done by the women. Another example in the same kind of situation is about the textile business. In the 19th century,  the labour force in textile works was dominated by the men but today women have outnumbered men in that area.
	Other tan this opinion, some people believe that the man can't do the jobs which need gentleness. This idea is also wrong. The best example of the wrongness of this idea is kindergarten teachers and nurses. In the seventies and eighties, there were nearly no male kindergarten teachers or nurses, even in the well-developed countries like USA or Canada but after nineties men started to work as kindergarten teachers or nurses. Today, even in the developing countries like Turkey or Mexico you can see many male kindergarten teachers or nurses. In the republic of Ireland, a man who is a former tax lawyer is trying to be Olympic synchronised swimmer and that shows us the gender is not an issue about doing a job.
	As a conclusion, in today’s world women and men can capable of doing any jobs. Excluding a male or a female from a certain profession because of his or her gender doesn't have any logical reason. Believing a gender is not a suitable for a certain job is just an out fashioned thought. There is no limitation for the men and women in the job market except prejudice.
Essay 1402:
	It has been widely  acknowledged  that the number of working  women increased  significantly  over the last century, and they  got involved  in the  different types  of  works. This topic  is in particular  importance  because the equality between  women  and men  has become  one of  the  most debated  issues. This essay will discuss whether both sexes suitable for whatever job or not.
	On the one hand, the main reason why women and men can occupy the same type of work is related to mental ability and intelligence. There is no relation between individual ability and gender. For example, the most important part when someone applying for a job in most companies is the grade and the certificate rather than the gender. Moreover, there are women who have become a policeman, which is quite dangerous, and they are successful in their careers.
	On the other hand, there are some types of works which is not suitable for all. Jobs that require physical activity, for instance, are more likely to be filled by men such as builder and army. In contrast, women are quite emotional and they have which is called (caring nature), for this reason, they are more suitable to be employed in nursing and caring. In these instances, obviously, women and men have different natural abilities.
	In conclusion, this essay has looked at whether women and men should have the same jobs or not. It would seem that women and men are capable of having the same type of careers, and individual ability is far important than the gender identity. Perhaps, with the development in the world, females can occupy more sensitive positions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1145-in-some-countries-using-the-internet-in-school-is-getting-popular",
Essay 1403:
	It is an irresistible fact that over the past few decades the world has witnessed the rapid strides in technology, especially in the field of education, as it has been seen that utilisation of internet has expanded among the schools in many countries. In my opinion, it has both positive and negative developments and effects.                               
	While spotlighting the positive development, I can say that it is highly imperative for today's pupils that they know about the new technology in this competitive epoch. So, to allow the internet in school can play a key role in the development of a student. By knowing the advantages of the internet, the young students can comprehend any concept of study which is not understood by them in classrooms. For verification, it is illustrated that the students who are well recognised with internet usage in school time, do not usually face the inconvenience in further life.
	On the contrary, in spite of the internet being such helpful in school, its drawbacks cannot be overlooked. It is likely that the pupils can be overdependent on the internet. It can swallow the direct interaction between students and teacher. For instance, there are many websites on the internet with which students can attend any lecture of his class through the internet while sitting at home. So he or she probably make it a habit and as to he or she can give preference to the online methods of study. Furthermore, there is surety that every student would use this technology in a positive way.
	So far I have written to be concluded that it is in the hand of the school department to make the positive development of usage of internet in school. They should allow the students to use the internet to such an extent that it cannot impact the practical knowledge and interaction of the students with teacher.
Essay 1404:
	The internet has revolutionised the manner in which information is retrieved. I strongly believe that excessive dependency on the internet can have negative implications on the pupils. This will be shown by looking at how immense exposure to the web can affect the social development and the concentration level of the students.
	For one, it is true that the content available on the website is difficult to monitor. This is due to the fact that it is impossible to filter out the matter based on the age of the person accessing it. For instance, there are some videos on the YouTube which are inappropriate for the people under 18 yet can be easily viewed by them just by declaring wrong age on the warning messages displayed. Such videos can have a negative impact on the young mind and thereby can afflict their social behaviour.
	In addition, data is easily available on the net with a single search of the keyword. This benefit lures most of the students to prefer studying on the internet instead of the conventional books. A good illustration for this is the google search engine which is the most used tool for obtaining the data. Utilisation of such tools on the daily basis motivates young people to minimise the usage of books and hence, they become used to getting information quickly. However, this hampers the searchability of the young people as well as lowers their attention level.
	As seen from above, inordinate usage of the internet can have negative ramifications on the child's development. Thus, it is expected that the educational institutions will put efforts to minimise the internet use.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1144-nowadays-it-is-more-difficult-for-children-to-concentrate-to-pay-attention-in-school",
Essay 1405:
	In today’s world, it has become harder for children to concentrate in the school and school environment, teachers’ behaviour, school administration and lack of interests in the study are some of the main reasons for that. In the following paragraphs, I would briefly discuss the main reasons for this problem and would propose some solutions to address this sensitive issue.
	The school surroundings should be pleasant and should have a cool atmosphere. In the noisy environment, children cannot pay attention in the class periods. Apart from that, nowadays the schools are treating students in the wrong way. The faculties are giving them to remember the answers without actually doing the brainstorm and creative way of learning. The children just memorising it and write those in the exams. That sometimes brings frustration among the students.
	Students have more fun stuff at home than they do have in schools. Like video games, computers, TV are more attractive and entertaining than studying in school. The teachers sometimes become harsh and that negatively affects the children’s thought. A proper environment is not ensured in many schools and students find it hard to study in a noisy and polluted environment. Very less interactive and interesting sessions are conducted by the school authority. Furthermore, very frequent exam schedules and pressure of study is another reason why students fear school. Teacher’s lack of knowledge and proper training sometimes makes them behave rudely. Alarmingly, the study has become more theoretical than practical and as a consequence, the students’ interest in academic subjects is declining.
	Some of the proposed solutions to address this very frightening issue are suggested in the below paragraph. I believe being able to address this issue would be a great benefit for our future.
	School should be primarily a place for study but fun stuff should be present as well. Academic exams and classes should be scheduled in a way that gives the students that they are not being pressurised. Extra-curricular activities should be practised more. Frequent appreciation and prizes should be awarded to the students for their performance. E-learning and flexible class should be introduced. More practical aspects than theoretical aspects of education should be introduced.
Essay 1406:
	It is true that children face a lot of strains these days while sitting in a classroom and they cannot focus on their academic study well due to various reasons. Even though there are certain problems, parents and teachers can take proactive steps to mitigate this issue completely.
	There are many reasons behind the lack of concentration by children in schools. First and foremost, children often tend to use mobile phones or laptops as they are greatly influenced by advanced technology. As a result, they cannot stay a long time in a conventional classroom without operating such devices. Naturally, they develop discomfort in the classroom and they fail to attend whole class with higher concentration, whereas their mind will be in newer electronic gadgets instead of academic subjects. Moreover, since children have much more workload to study in schools in a limited time frame, they always try to save time as much as they can. For example, most of the pupils skip their meals, particularly breakfast to get a few amount of time for studying. This habit would negatively affect the physical health status of them, which will reduce the concentration ability. Besides, obviously, they become fatigued and weak because of the decreased level of glucose and energy. Environmental pollution and eating habits are two other reasons to affect students physically and mentally. This causes them to focus less on classes. Moreover, family issues, parents’ lack of attention and scarcity of qualified teachers are some other reasons that create this problem.  
	However, these issues can be addressed effectively if certain steps are taken by parents and teachers. I believe the most obvious solution is that parents should control their children in the use of technological devices such as iPad, computers and smartphones, which helps to avoid physical and psychological health issues to a greater extent. It also reduces wavering nature of mind considerably and attention span would increase vastly. A further step would be - teachers and parents should teach students proper time management skills. Therefore children can fulfil responsibilities and duties without consuming more time. Another possibility is that nutritional lessons should be arranged in the school setting for improving the awareness among children regarding the adequacy of well-balanced diet while studying. Establishing schools in a calm and beautiful place, adding more fun while learning, arranging training for teachers regarding their behaviours towards children and a maintaining a healthy child-parent relationship can boost up the children’s attention in classrooms.
	To conclude, despite certain causes for the lack of children’s attention in classes, parents and teachers can solve this issue properly if they take correct precautions. So I hope concerned authority will consider these methods, while students possess such problems.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1143-some-people-are-born-with-certain-talents",
Essay 1407:
	People have various opinions regarding what truly makes a person a good performer or a talented individual. Some people contend that the talent is a natural gift, whilst others, including myself, have a different opinion since we believe that any person can become an excellent achiever by guidance, dedication and hard work.
	On the one hand, it is believed that some people are gifted and they naturally master musical instruments or sports as if they had been taught for years. For instance, my son, who is a big fan of football, was admitted to a higher level on his first training session because he could easily perform all the required skills of the previous levels. Had he been trained earlier, he would have joined the club official team.. Therefore, it can be deduced that some people are more talented than others.
	On the other hand, it can be argued that some people have a passion for a certain leisure activity and it is beneficial that educational institutions and family members exert effort to realize this. An example for this is a questionnaire administered to an American elementary school where the results revealed that around 75% of the students master playing different musical devices after rigorous training by their music teachers. Accordingly, it can be argued that hobbies can be taught as well as being a natural talent.
	Having manifested the aforementioned points of view and examples, it can be recapitulated that people can either learn to play music or sports, or they can be naturally talented. However, in my humble opinion, both cases should receive guided training, encouragement and an appropriate environment to perform efficiently. It is recommended that the governments should invest more to add extra skills to the students apart from education.
Essay 1408:
	Many artists or football players claim that their talent is of genetic origin. They did not have to learn music or sport to become that talented. Having said that, a growing number of people believe that any child can be the best chess player or the fastest swimmer in the world as long as he receives the right teaching and proper direction. In this essay, I will look at both sides of the argument and give my opinion.
	First and foremost, many believe that any child can be a genius one. It is only about how much his parents are paying attention to his needs and what do they do to develop these hobbies. For example, a psychology professor agreed with his wife to raise their children as the books of development and psychology say, and now their daughter is the second best chess player in the world.
	In my view, it all starts from home when a mother tries to show her baby various options and different areas of play. Therefore, he will identify the available components around him and try to discover his own interests. As the children grow up, they need continuous support and encouragement to keep his certain hobby, such as music, more developed. This will not happen without professional help to have the famous talented artist at the end. On the contrary, there is a common belief that many celebrities are famous because they were born with specific talents not because they were taught to practice these talents.
	To sum up, I strongly believe that either born talented or not, any person can be whatever he wants only by the continuous hard work and practice, not by genetics.
Essay 1409:
	It's well known that some children are born with talents and skills which are very obvious like those who are very talented in playing music from the very early age, or those who have physical and mental power which in fact exceeds their age. In the same context, some people say that these talents are not only found in some children, but in all. They claim that these skills don't appear clearly unless treated in proper ways. While other people believe in natural talents and they opine that talents are something people are born with and what people learn are experience and skills. In my opinion, every child is good more specifically extremely good, in a specific thing, but what is that talent? How can we develop it? Or can we at all develop it?
	"He doesn't have an extra foot or hand to be better than you!" - this is a well-known saying which encourages children to develop their skills to catch up with those who are supposed to be talented. Parents and teachers use this common saying just to indicate that someone is not better just because he was chosen at the time of his birth. With efforts, anything can be achieved.
	Psychologically, all children have the ability to be good at music or sports, for instance, if they are given appropriate teaching and wise guiding. This doesn't contradict with what is known as natural talents. I believe that these natural talents play an important role in manifesting talents; this can be seen in the fields of music and sports. We can see that most of the stars of sports and the brilliant musician had a natural talent; however, it was treated correctly and finally gave that success.
	In conclusion, I completely agree with the idea that any child can excel when he gets enough encouragement, guideline, opportunity and proper environment.
Essay 1410:
	These days a talent hunt shows are very popular in India. Some people have quite unique talents which are difficult to imagine. For example, a person can create a shadow of different faces of the freedom fighters of India by just using his two hands. It is a debatable topic whether such talents are learned or it is God gifted.
	Few people are born with a talent. For instance, a two years old child can play multiple drums parallel like a professional musician. I am confident that a child cannot learn such skills at the age of two. Sometimes you inherit such skills from your ancestors. For instance, it is not surprising if a great singer's son can also sing very well.
	On the other hand, we have a considerable amount of people who are different from their family. For example, a golf world champion belongs to the wrestler’s family. A champion confirmed that his father wanted him to be different than his family. With rigorous training he became would champion at the age of nine. If talent is acquired only by birth than a coaching concept would not have been accepted so widely.
	It is said that China won 15 medals in one of the Olympic Games. After that, the government started a training program nationwide where kids are being trained in different sports. In two decades China won 15 medals and became number one in that Olympic game.
Essay 1411:
	The statement states the old discussion of the role of nature and nurture. The first group believes that the innate capacities, inherited genes, or born talent play a key role in the professions like sports and performing arts such as music. It’s true that there are people who born with certain talents can perform exceptionally well in their fields. It’s also a general belief that musicians and artists are born with the ability of music and arts or sports.
	The other groups of people have confidence in the learning. For them, any talent can be acquired be it a music or sports and any person can achieve anything through hard work and determination. They believe that the man is an architect of his own fate.  
	In my opinion, I support the second statement, though no one can rule out the role of natural talents. A person can be born with good voice tone and quality but he cannot achieve harmony, scale and rhythm without learning. And beyond one’s primitive ability, every innate talent is basic in nature and for its development, it requires encouragement and teaching. The consistency and hard work can then make you perfect. The poets and writers, though born with the talent, do not let out their work before making it perfect through several alterations. For example, William Wordsworth, the famous poet, revised and amended his poem daffodils. As it is said, “draft while drunk, but revise when sober.”
	On the whole, innate abilities do provide an aptitude for art and sports but success and perfection require trial and error method. 
Essay 1412:
	People have differing opinions as to what makes a high achiever. Some believe that a person has got to possess certain innate traits to become an excellent performer while the other school of thought is that anyone can become an excellent performer if being taught in a right way. I tend to gravitate towards the latter school of thought.
	Firstly, we have to admit that in certain realms in life, to achieve greatness, you have got to have the right genetics, to illustrate; a shorter person will always be at a disadvantage against a taller person in basketball. Secondly, many children display phenomenal qualities at sports and music that it wouldn’t be irrational to believe that they were born with these characteristics, enabling them to excel in their chosen fields.
	However, I strongly believe that talent is massively overhyped in our culture. If we examine the lives of top performers in any field such as Tiger Woods in Golf or Mozart in music, we would realise that these people didn’t have any inborn attributes that we normally associate with geniuses. What in fact happens is that such people normally are exposed to the areas that they would grow up to excel in, later in their lives, from a very tender age. There is indeed no such thing as a child prodigy which is evident from biographies of almost all of highly recognised top performers. In addition, these people spend a painstaking amount of time perfecting their acts whether be it symphonies or a particular kind of move in sports.
	To conclude, in spite of the fact that most people believe that talent is inborn, I beg to differ with this notion and believe that as long as the trait in question is not purely physical, like height, any child or person can become a top performer in their chosen domain with enough time spent in practice.
Essay 1413:
	'Talent' as defined by many scientists, is a gift and inherent ability that enables someone to be special than others in a particular area, while many people believe in that others argue that talent could be achieved, learnt or could be gained with practice. I agree that talent is a gift but could be strayed without continuous practice.
	On one hand, the proof of that talent or being good in certain aspect is something came spontaneously as many famous talented celebrities, whether they are a musician or professional sportsmen, never had any teaching or any special teaching when they were young. Moreover, many of them were raised in a poor environment with very limited resources, in contrast, there are many sports teams which had a huge budget for the best training facilities and they are still losing whereby the team with low budget and even poor training sessions are winning! If talent had nothing to do with our success, then rich students with better facilities would always have performed better than the poor students who study all by themselves. If practice could have done everything, we would definitely have many Einstein, Leonardo da Vinci, Newton, Pele and Shakespeare in every country. The reality is, they are born with talents and their dedication makes them unique.
	On the other side talent alone is not enough without practice and hard work. The talented persons need to replenish his/her talent every now and then and try to improve it with practice and learning. The personality like Leonardo da Vinci and Einstein have not achieved their success without sacrifice and hard work.
	Many famous and talented singers and famous musicians make hours of daily certain voice exercise for their vocal cords for maintaining the nice voice quality they have and get the maximum benefit of his talent for his community. Furthermore, the government and community associations should contribute in discovering new talents and promote it, facilitate the training for talented persons and sponsor them from their youngest age and make them stars.
	In conclusion, talents always play a key role in our success but self-development, commitments, hard work and tender care are also required to maintain the inherent talent and through practice, we can make impossible into possible.
Essay 1414:
	It is said that ‘nothing is impossible ' in this world. To make every impossible thing possible, lots of hard work, sacrifice, determination, and good health are required. In an exception, some people confront to failure despite performing their duties sincerely.
	On the contrary, there are some people in the world who fail to realise their interest. Certainly, one can have a rewarding career if one's talent is deduced on time. Otherwise, life becomes far worse than expectations. Let's imagine, what will happen if Pele had pursued his career other than football? Surely, other people might have been filled up the shoe as 'a king of football'. But, this did not happen as football passionate Pele transformed gifted talent into a reality. So, natural talent cannot be fostered unless one interests in it.
	It is the obligation of parents and teacher to motivate, care and assist in making their children's future prosperous. Otherwise, children have to lead the life beyond their acumen and capacity. Neither does it any good to children themselves nor to the parents and the country if the natural talents of a particular field get spoiled.
	In conclusion, one can learn whatever they are taught but to become the master of it, one should be born with the talent for it.
Essay 1415:
	Each child in this world comes with a great potential and different children have different talents for various activities. One child may have fantastic talents for sports and someone may have more potential to become a mathematician, musician or an artist. It’s a quite interesting natural phenomenon that we face within the children. To make the world more beautiful and enriched, we should nurture the different thoughts and different innate abilities of children. In my opinion nature and nurture both have the equal role to play for a child to become a successful professional.
	To begin with, every child reflects his/her abilities at the infant stage and parents can decide their life path. Those children come with natural talents and outshine others. For instance, a child shows more promising performance among the siblings in mathematics even though all of them have got same care and environment. This proves that people have inborn talents that we cannot deny. No doubt proper care and effective teaching method can hone someone's performance but this is not always the case. If training and teaching would have been everything we would certainly recreate great minds like Newton, Einstein, Mozart and Shakespeare every year.  
	From a neutral point of view, it depends on the brain capacity and also with the parent’s care. If the parents are wiser and more talented, we can see their children become more talented. Sometimes it gives a broader outlook of a child's life. They easily absorb the things what they learn from the school as well as from the society. Genetic engineering also confirms that talented parents usually give birth of talented children. However, this does not guarantee that a child of talented a successful parents will always be talented and successful. For this, an outstanding amount of effort and dedication would be required both from the parents and the child. 
	On the contrary, most of the children do not have outstanding inborn talents. They might have some potentials but that cannot be explored until they are engaged in a certain field. Without practice and commitment, many talented individuals do not even explore their potential in their entire life. Thus practice, excellent teaching method and dedication can bring out the best of a child and guide him for the rest of the life. Consequently, children become more talented and experts only if they are engaged in a certain field. For an instance, well-known football player Ronaldo had has his own talents, but he has improved this skill only by proper guidelines and practice. 
	To conclude, talent makes many people stand out of the crowd and helps to perform extraordinary things. However proper care, environment and dedication are also required to create professionals with expertise and kill.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1142-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-227-in-many-cities-crime-is-increasing",
Essay 1416:
	Crime is a very old phenomenon and no one knows when it actually started. The sad fact is that crime rate is increasing including killing, stealing, robbing, kidnapping, rape… etc. Actually, there are many reasons for that awful and miserable phenomenon.
	Some people always look at other peoples' properties and not pleased with what they have. And that, of course, leads to hatred and then lead to misdeeds. Moreover, some people are psychiatric disordered and which in turn leads to violence. Another thing that we should take care of is the lack of necessary money; many criminals would not have become criminals if they had had enough money and other daily needs for themselves and their families. In a recent study about crimes and their reasons, professor Kathy Mac James said that 85% gangsters joined gangs due to the shortage of social welfare. She protested that this majority of gangsters were either orphan who didn't get enough care during childhood and adolescence or not married. Now it is the time to raise an important question: ‘do all the previous reasons give you the right to be a criminal? The answer comes immediately: of course not, even if you don't have a cent in your pocket.
	Another important question is: What is the solution of this heinous situation? How can we overcome crime in our society? In my opinion, it's the responsibility of both the government and individuals. In fact, most of the burden is on the government and they alone cannot eliminate crime from a country. It's very important to reinforce the policemen with the latest equipment and set firmer laws to prevent criminals from thinking of crimes.
	And for individuals, which includes people like you and me, we should help the needy, not only with money but also psychological help and support.
	(by Abdullah Hassan)
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1141-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-226-visitors-should-follow-local-customs-and-behaviours",
Essay 1417:
	Whether visitors to other countries should follow local customs and behaviours or the host country should welcome cultural differences is a widely debated issue. This essay deals with it and gives my point of view.
	Visitors should respect the local customs, demeanours and cultures of the host country. If the guests behave abusively to the emcee, it is not the polite way in our society. Before going somewhere, it is better to know the local traditions of a definite country. Every country does have the same customs, cultures, behaviours and origins. If an individual follows the local customs of others in its respective places, it means mutual understanding to each other. If so, people on the earth will raise the esteem on one another and every country will reach a compromise, then the world will become the improving, beautiful and peaceful place ever to live in without wars.
	As an example, many leaders from the world visit Myanmar and they recognise mutual respects and show affection to others such as saying ‘mingalarpar’, making a gesture of respect by putting the palms together and raising them to the forehead. They also value the religious customs by taking off their shoes and wearing the appropriate dresses on the flat ground around the stupa and pagodas. Too many local residents warmly welcome them gladly and heartily. The ignorance of local language and custom may lead to a big problem since it is disrespectful to another culture.
	For another example, when I was travelling to Saudi Arabia as a visitor, I wore ‘abaya’ and covered my long hairs for going outside. This meant just paying respect for other culture and I did not lose my original identity. I even got some help and assistance from local people for my respect towards their traditions.
	Therefore, to sum up, I strongly agree that visitors should comply with customs and cultures of the host country.
	(by Marlar Tinaye)
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1140-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-225-people-today-change-their-career-and-living-places-in-their-lives",
Essay 1418:
	It is believed that a lot of people have decided to change their jobs or workplaces, and living areas as well. Despite some negative developments that do exist, I personally believe that the changing activity is a positive development.
	On the one hand, some potential risks may occur when people decide to change their jobs or residential areas. There is a risk that they might not perform well in their new roles, or not welcomed by the other employees. Besides that, there is also a chance that the new neighbourhoods have high crime rates or the weather might not be friendly. However, changing a career and a living area is an essential thing; therefore people should study, do some researchers, analyse all of the problems and try to mitigate the risks before they make a decision.     
	On the other hand, it is true that when people changed their careers and area of living, they could find some benefits. Firstly, as people changed their works, they might become more successful than in their previous careers. In certain situations, some people might have felt that their current jobs are not in accordance with their passions. Therefore they prefer to change their occupations into other jobs which are more suitable for them. Secondly, living in new places, or new cities give them the opportunities to experience new things. They could feel the experiences of having new friends, learn new languages or even feel the different weather conditions.
	In conclusion, I personally think that changing a career or living place is a positive development, as people could achieve higher careers in their lives and get more experiences in their life.
Essay 1419:
	Migrating to another city or changing a career is nowadays a popular trend. Some people choose to stay in the cities where they have been born or to stick to their career and never try anything new for their work, but some decide to change their lives, moving to another city, or changing their work field. Though there can be many disadvantages of radically changing the way of someone's life, in my opinion, such a change can create numerous benefits for all types of people.
	Discovering something new was and always will be one of the favourite aspects of people's life. We still try to find out more about the ocean, space, cultures and history, spending millions of money on these things. While identifying the new limits of space can be a huge step forward for all the humanity, for some people moving to a bigger city can be a personal discovery. To my mind, it is tremendously interesting to discover new places, people, hobbies, and by moving to a new city, these kinds of aspects become possible.
	Similarly changing the field of work can be a huge step forward into a new world of discoveries for some people. Sometimes, the same everyday routine that does not change in years can make someone extremely bored, and make a person fall into a depression. For some individuals, a career change could create a new daily routine, where he or she would have to face new problems, people, tasks, and new enjoyment. It has also been proved by psychologists in a recent study, that a change in someone's life could be a healthy treat.
	To conclude, human beings are designed in a way that many aspects of our lives become boring to us after a long, and a change of our living places or career might create a positive tone in our boring everyday-routines.
Essay 1420:
	"Change is the essence of the life ". I feel that in today's competitive world, one should be professional in multidisciplinary fields to survive. As what author mentioned that the increased number of people today change their career and living places in their lives, is correct and is a positive thing as far as I am concerned. Below I will justify why I say that it is a positive development.
	Firstly, I think that it is a critical thing to change career and place from one to another because it requires a lot of potential and adaptability to do this. This happens when a crisis occurs in any particular field then a lot of people lose their jobs and positions of those people become chaotic. So in that situation, if a person has knowledge in some other fields, then he can actually sustain. One such instance was, my uncle Jim who was working as a JAVA developer in a software company, during that time his field had an economic crisis and lots of people have lost their jobs. Then he was also a professional in teaching, so he joined as a professor and taught lessons to the students. He changed his career and was stable enough in life.
	Secondly, I even support changes the living places because one likes to move to the place where he gets good salary in his profession. Most of the people migrate from place to another in search of jobs also and the best facilities to live a comfortable life. These days it is becoming quite a common that people move from one place to another. This not only fetches good propensities but also come across different culture and lifestyle. This could happen even because of some discrimination in that place so that a person moves away to get opportunities to live happily. One such example was: a person called Mark who was living in a village had to leave his home in search of a job in the city as he was a computer science engineer. He never had a chance to do a job in his village, as no company existed in that town. Now he is an executive engineering and earning a very good ransom of salary and has all facilities with him.
	So I would like to conclude by saying that it is always a positive point to change career when the situation demands it and is also a good move to change the living places. One will be satisfied when his work is appreciated and gets a good salary, so in search of this one can definitely change his or her career or place but not in every instance.
Essay 1421:
	It is noticeable today that a significant number of people are shifting their careers and living places during the course of their lives, domestically or even internationally. In my opinion, it is a positive phenomenon that has its impact in both, personal lives and the society in general.
	Life is dynamic and people tend to adapt to change in all aspects, it is no longer strange to notice people from different races living together and interacting in a day-to-day routine in work and living places. A good example of this change is the Arabian Gulf countries where East and West intersect and a new community characteristic is evolved. This has reflected positively in the whole community, people get more and more open-minded, having less resistance to new ideas, the knowledge and experience are shared from different sources giving the best out of this mixture, everyone contributes and the result is international.
	In a personal level, the change is huge, having lived this experience myself, I can say I'm not the same anymore, interacting and dealing with people coming from different places all over the world with different backgrounds had a significant impact on me in both personal and professional levels, now I can adapt more easily to changes and foreign idea, I appreciate cultural motivated actions and decisions I never thought of or imagined I can accept and live with before.
	Emphasizing more on the career change, I think it is positive not to restrict yourself to a certain career path, having the flexibility to move easily if needed to a different career or field gives the power to change and gain more knowledge and experience keeping learning as you grow old, it is a cumulative process that strengthens the personality and opens the door for future potential opportunities.
	In conclusion, change is a principal element of human nature, one should not fight or resist it whether it's a career or living place or country change, it has its positive effects and gets more and easier with today's globalisation and integration in life.
Essay 1422:
	People switch career paths and move to different places for various reasons ranging from better prospects, high earnings to the better quality of life. In many instances, this has many positive impacts on family or community of a person. Particularly when a talent is not recognised and appreciated in a country or in a career, it is definitely a wise step to change jobs and move to greener pastures.
	If we consider the case of a person coming from a developing country, it is very likely that there are fewer opportunities in his home country. If this person relocates to a country where his skill is regarded as niche and rare, chances are that he will get paid 100-300% more than his pay in his native country. For instance, today there are better-paying jobs in Information Technology industry in the USA than in India. Due to this, young population in India wants to relocate to one of these countries to have better standards of living and salaries. Apart from this, there are more chances to go up in corporate ladder and get chances to interact and work with experts in the industries. In some instances, even when we have the best paying job, one may not end their day satisfied. It is strongly advised to divert their energies to a career of their interest or choice.
	On the contrary, when relocating to a different country or a job, one needs to leave their families and friends behind and live far from them. It takes very long time to socialise in new environments and get used to cultures. For example, if one migrated from India to Australia, he will have to adjust to different weather conditions, cultures and living style. A lot of things that are deemed acceptable in India are probably considered absolutely insane in Australia. Due to reasons like this, career growth may stagnate for a while and sometimes does not go as expected.
	We should balance the positives and negatives when deciding to change careers or living places. When we need years to adjust to new careers and communities, it is wise to calculate impact beforehand and move on.
Essay 1423:
	The modern world has seen the profound growth in availability of various job prospects and better living standards. This trend has enabled people across the globe with a wide range of career options while improved and affordable lifestyle became the key path breaker in helping them move across the globe. I believe it is a positive movement.
	There are several reasons why people undergo a career change and relocation. Sometimes, lack of job opportunities and poor financial situation of one's state could be the key factor leading to change in career path. Another reason could be better wages and low tax rates in other states, adding to more savings and an increased happiness in peoples' lives. In addition to this, better living standards and a fast-paced career advancement opportunities, helping one to climb the ladder of organisational positions even faster, could be some of the main reasons.
	Naturally, it is considered to be a positive and an advantageous practice, leading to improvement in ones' well-being and better financial possibilities. With the smooth flow of finances, one can invest in other businesses or can better support his family in various ways like for child education, health services, housing, entertainment, travelling etc. , therefore, the ultimate contributing factor for the better life. Moreover, changing the place of living due to career changes provides one with options to experience the different cultures and traditional customs of many parts of the world.
	In conclusion, many people prefer to opt for alternate career options and sometimes different place of living for various life and jobs related reasons. This shift is considered a rewarding and absolutely positive for mankind as it comes with a wide array of benefits along with fulfilling lifestyle.
Essay 1424:
	With more and more technological advancement, the world is becoming smaller day by day. Modern means of transportation and communication have enabled the business organisations to become global. This has also opened doors for people to travel and live in different places in the world, and even have more career change options.
	In spite of challenges associated with moving places, more and more people are keen to explore and experience living at different places. This not only takes away the boredom associated with living at the same place, or doing the same job for long, it also brings a lot of personal grooming and adaptation ability to one's character. This further improves their ability to grow in their career and seek out best opportunities available.
	"Why say no to a great opportunity just because it needs the change of a place?", is the modern generation's thinking. The Internet and mobile phones have further helped with this cause.
	But, there are some downsides of this. The traditional way of living at the same place and being in the same profession for many-many years provides stability and peace for both mind and body. One can keep better health by staying at one place. Life will be less stressful. And while adults may like the changes, it could be taxing for kids to adjust to new environments, and make new friends.
	To conclude, there are both good and bad aspects of changing places or careers, but the fact is more and more people are embracing it, and this is becoming part and parcel of modern life. More the flexibility for change, better the career opportunities are.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1137-people-succeed-because-of-their-hard-work",
Essay 1425:
	Many people are successful in life, which can be explained not only by their hard work. In this essay, I am going to consider that luck is as important as the ability to dedicate our time and energy to work.
	We must acknowledge that without a deep understanding of what we do and how we do we can hardly achieve positive outcomes. There are millions of employees who do not go beyond their duties, not moving deeper to comprehend that the process is about. Consequently, they see only a visible side of the iceberg. They are quite satisfied being paid a decent salary and having some bonuses. Such people do not look for challenges; they treasure stability and are not ready for changes. They can spend a whole life doing one and the same work, even if it is extremely boring and irritating,
	On the other hand, there are absolutely different people who do not only dedicate all their time to work but comprehend all the stages, distinguish the bonds and even make efforts to improve these processes. Needless to say, it takes a lot of time and inner strength. These people are said to be "burning at work", as they cannot imagine their existence without it.  The job for them is not only a source of wealth but something they are fond and proud of.
	Undoubtedly luck plays an invaluable part in climbing a professional ladder. For example, I worked as a teacher of English in Ukraine. 5 years ago it was my first attempt to take part in the programme "Excellence in Teaching" held by the American Department of Education. Despite all my efforts, I was not able to go further than the semifinal. There were two opposite feelings struggling within- the desire to give up and the enormous intention to win. The most unbearable thing was that I could not figure out where I had made a mistake. The next year I filled in the same application forms and wrote exactly the same essay. To my amazement, I became a winner and was granted a scholarship at George Mason University, Virginia. I doubt it can be explained other factors than the luck.
	Overall, hard work cannot be underestimated. But only with luck a person can achieve recognisable success. We all should dedicate ourselves to our jobs and climb new summits.
Essay 1426:
	At the present time, people believe that only hardworking people will succeed and there's no place for luck. I totally disagree with the rubric above due to the fact that people cannot earn money without luck and with no luck people won't be able to get a job and it will be proven in the following essay.
	Firstly, since the dawn of time people believed to luck, for example, people always carry some kind of talismans or chokers. In the Ireland, people believe that green clover will bring them money and luck. And the situation has not been changed at the present as well. You can hold a questionnaire and ask strangers "do they believe in luck or not?" I'm sure that 100% of people will say ‘yes’; because the luck is an inalienable part of the life of human beings.
	Secondly, without luck people won't be able to get even a job. For instance, when people looking for a job, they are searching them on newspapers and magazines and they don't know what expects them there, they only rely on luck and trying to find a suitable job for themselves. Furthermore, even at the school sometimes kids are getting their marks by luck, which means that teachers sometimes can mix up jobs and mark the student wrong. It's also a clear example of luck.
	On the other hand, if people will rely on only luck they will not get anything, truly luck is with us but it helps only when we work hard. For example, in difficult situations when people cannot make a choice between something, they are choosing only by their instincts and if they work hard and learn a lot, they know which decision to make, it all comes from experience.
	After analysing both sides of this issue, I have concluded that despite the hard work, people always need at least the grain of luck for the successful life.
Essay 1427:
	Every person wants to be successful in life. They have been trying their best, studying or working hard to reach what they wish for. Some people believe that success is about hard work. They argue that luck does not have a part in this case. People succeed depend on how big their effort to get what they want, not about fortune. But I disagree with the opinion because I think that success is about effort, pray, and luck.
	There are many things that people do for being successful in life, especially in their careers. They spend the time to work as hard as they can and as much as they are able. Success becomes their goal so they push their selves to get that. Successful people in this world are them who always are responsible, honest, hardworking, and lucky.    
	Sometimes people feel very confident and they just focus on their effort. They are too busy trying their best to achieve something so they forget that there is an important thing besides an effort: that is luck. I do not want to say that hard work is not important, but I believe that luck influences the result of our effort. For instance, occasionally people have tried their best for doing something but in the end, they do not get what they want.
	Many people forget that the biggest power in this universe is God, not themselves. Furthermore, thinking that hard work is the only thing to be success sounds not wise. There were few people fail to reach their dreams although they have worked hard for it. They have spent much of their time to try their best. But who knows, they get something which is not expecting. Is because of luck? Maybe yes because the effort is not enough to be successful. We need luck and definitely, we need God.      
	In conclusion, I believe that success is not only about how hard we try but also our luck. Every human has their own luck and their own fate but they have to still try. People should respect the process, not just the result. What happens in future will depend on our effort and the blessing of the Almighty.
Essay 1428:
	"Success is always a journey but not a destination". I feel that success cannot be a place but it is a part and journey of one's own life. The author of this topic says that people succeed in their lives only because of the hard work but not the luck. According to me, both will play vital roles in every individual person's life. In the below paragraphs I will justify how both are important to succeed.
	Firstly, I would like to say that without hard work even God will not help you out in coming over the things in life. So, one should work hard to earn anything. I say this because there are many people around the world who tasted success because of their immense hard work. It is a sheer illusion that one comes up in life without hard work. For instance, everyone knows about the president of America. He was born in a poor family in Kansas, his father somehow managed to send him to the school for education. Then he really worked hard and secured seats in Columbia University and then to his dedication, he completed his law from Harvard Law University with scholarships and stipends.
	Now I would like to put emphasis on the luck which is also a required one in success. One may be really hard working but if the place where he or she is residing is underdeveloped then it will be very difficult to achieve the feat. Not only that when we read the stories of great people, we can observe that, they had a coordinating family through which they succeeded, they are not lucky here. One such example is the legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar. He is a well-known cricketer in the world. He was such a lucky person that he not only had a very good coach and his parents' support but also got a chance to play international cricket at the age of 16, which I feel is terrific. He used to be busy with the cricket schedule and his wife use to take care of their children, so he is lucky enough to have all this.
	In the end, I would like to conclude by saying that it is a combination of both hard work and luck that makes a man successful in life in all respects. Having one without another is like a car without any fuel.
Essay 1429:
	Many people think that to be successful someone should rely on working hard and luck has no role in success. I completely disagree with this notion that success only depends on hard work. In my view, the importance of luck should not be ignored to be successful.
	Firstly, Lucky people have more advantages than unlucky people. For example, in IELTS exam, to be lucky it is very important to manage to get a high score because you confront a lot of topics in the exam and if you are lucky, the topics may not be tough for you because of your knowledge about them. In the speaking test, you must opt to cue card that is a vital part of your score. If you are not familiar with the topic in the cue card which you choose, you could not achieve to get a high score in the exam even if you study hard and learn a lot of vocabularies. On the other hand, if you know a variety of vocabulary about the topic that you choose, you can get a high score and pass the exam even maybe this is the best score you have ever got. Therefore, to be lucky sometimes is as important as to be hard-working.
	Secondly, Luck is essential to be successful in the professional life. For instance, one of my friends, his name is Mehmet, is a kind, smart, and hard-working person, but he is still in the same position since he began to work. However, one of our mutual friend, his name is Ali, is also hard-working but at the same time, he is an amazingly lucky person because he embarked on working the same position in the same company. However, because of having one more certificate than Mehmet, he was promoted to the director post. As a result, he earns a higher salary than Mehmet.
	In conclusion, In my opinion, success not only rely on hard work but also rely on to be luck. Thus, lucky people have always advantages to accomplish what they want compared to the unlucky people.
Essay 1430:
	Success is the ultimate goal of everyone. All of us are doing our best to achieve success in different fields of life as work and study.
	People try to achieve success through many ways; some of them are hard workers, they depend on their efforts to gain success. Others are relying on their relations with important or authorised persons to reach their goals. In addition to the previous, there is a category of lucky people where luck plays important role in their lives and helps them very much.
	Luck, in my opinion, has a great effects on the people's life, as it can shift their ways into different directions that may change their lives completely to the better, for example: Lionel Messi, the most famous football player in the world, was a son of very poor family in Argentina and suffered from a medical problem while he was children related to his growth and bone formation. The luck leads a scout of one of the biggest football club in Spain to see his skills while he was playing in his area's street in Argentina and presented him to the club, where he obtained the due care and now Lionel Messi is may be the most famous person in the world. Beside of that, luck and coincidence can serve humanity in a positive way, no one can deny the role of luck in the story of Newton and the apple which lead after that to discover the gravity rules.
	Last but not least, It should not be left unmentioned that success is the normal result of working hard and one should not only depend on his/her luck for a long time to achieve success because it may not work for many times.
Essay 1431:
	There has been a debate whether or not luck plays a part in success. Some people argued that hard work is the only thing that helps people to succeed, whereas others think that luck also contributes to success. Personally, I agree with the latter.
	Hard work is definitely crucial when it comes to success. Without any hard work, it is highly unlikely that someone would succeed. For instance, there might be a good opportunity for someone to establish a cyber-security company given the current demand on that field, but if he is unwilling to work hard on developing the firm, it might not flourish.
	In my opinion, success occurs when one is willing to commit to one thing, prepare for the right opportunity to come and snatch it when it arises. Steve Jobs would be a good example of this when he developed iPhones despite the popularity of other non-touch screen phones at the time. Thus, when touchscreen phones were finally in a boom, he was well-prepared and made good use of the opportunity.
	Nevertheless, I believe that luck is also needed to be accomplished. This is because one has to be in the right place at the right time. An example of this would be a person who has the ability and perseverance to develop a website similar to Google. While he might work really hard on it, if the person does not have any connection to the technology world, it is unlikely that his website would gain much attention.
	In conclusion, I think being hardworking is really important to be successful. Still, luck plays a role where having the right opportunity to the right person is also required for success. I do believe, however, that it is more important to keep working hard rather than simply waiting for luck to approach us.
Essay 1432:
	It is believed that people will achieve their goals and have a successful career if they work hard, and luck has no effect on it. To a certain point, I would agree that some people are succeeded due to their diligent and hard working cultures, but I do believe that luck also plays an important part in people's life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1131-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-223-in-some-countries-it-has-been-made-illegal-for-people-to-smoke-in-all-public-places",
Essay 1433:
	Smoking is considered to be one of the major causes of deaths and untreatable diseases such as cancer, around the world. Many countries have imposed stricter laws in order to restrain its usage. Such an action is the prohibition of smoking in public places. According to some, this ban can help us to lessen the usage of cigarettes to a considerable degree and therefore is advocated to be implemented everywhere in the world. While others believe it to be a restriction imposed on one's rights. Therefore, let us analyse the task at hand more deeply.
	It is irrefutable to say that smoking is injurious to health and need to be contained up to a certain limit. Many adverse effects are attached along with its usage in public places. First of all, it will set a bad example for the adolescents. Promoting the smoking in common places can lead the younger generations to follow the same path. And there is no doubt in that the future of the country lies in the hands of coming generations. Therefore, it would be unwise to compromise it. Secondly, the amount of litter created by this practice can lead to an incline in the garbage, which further increases the burden of government. As they have to spend more money on the cleanliness of cities. Finally, it can cause conflicts among people who are not ready to compromise their own health by inhaling the second-hand smoke. This is indeed justified as the recent studies have shown that passive smoking is as bad as normal smoking, if not worse.
	On the other hand, those who do not support this idea have their own reasons. The first and foremost is that those people believe that this rule will cause the demise of many businesses. They think that if it is not allowed to smoke cigarettes in public places such as bars and restaurants, then people will stop coming to such places and those businesses will have to entail losses. What is more, according to them, it will also result in unemployment. As decreased usage of cigarettes means lesser sales which in result can render many workers out of jobs. Finally, it is also seen as a valuable source of generating revenues for the government and if this rule is to be put into action, then a big portion of that income will be taken away from the government, which it levies in the form of taxes.
	To conclude, it can be said that allowing doing such a practice in places with people is not advisable. Therefore, a complete ban should be put into exercise for making the experience of visiting such places pleasant.
Essay 1434:
	Smoking is dangerous and injurious to health. Some countries have taken a forward step and banned smoking in all public places except designated areas. I strongly agree that all countries should make such rules to safeguard the lives of people.
	Everyone agrees to the fact that smoking is very harmful. It not only badly affects the health of smokers but also other people around him/her, mainly due to cigarette smoke. Applying the rules to smoke only in certain public areas will protect the non-smokers.  Further, some people have allergies with smoke. Smoking in a public area may unintentionally trigger their allergic reactions which could be fatal. Moreover, specified smoking areas are designed in such a way that these areas would not have anything which could easily catch fire, so remains of cigarette litter may not be harmful.
	Regardless of the country boundaries, this rule has already been applied by some industries like civil aviation. Smoking is prohibited on all passenger flights. Smoke detectors have already in place on all planes. Even plane lavatories have smoke detectors.  Similarly, within the country boundaries, some organisations have implemented these rules, like a private bus system. Smoking is not allowed while people are on board. People are also not allowed to smoke while they are sitting on their desk in their offices. A place outside the office building usually alongside the parking is specified for smoking.
	In the end, it is concluded that lawmakers of each country should make these rules to banish the smoking except in some specific areas mentioned earlier.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1130-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-222-people-leave-their-country-to-work-abroad-and-take-their-family-with-them",
Essay 1435:
	Nowadays, many people migrate to other countries to work, and in many cases, they take their family members with them as well. There are some positive and negative things about this trend, but in my personal opinion it has more advantages than the disadvantages and the following essay will discuss them both in details.
	 For a number of reasons, many people believe that working overseas and take their families bring a lot of benefits for them. Firstly, many people believe that by working overseas, they will earn higher incomes. As a consequence, their families' standard of living and economic condition will improve, especially for people who migrate from third world countries to advanced countries.  Secondly, some people are moving to another country due to in the new country, their children will get a better education. For instance, some people from Indonesia are migrating to Australia as permanent residences and work there due to they are hoping that their children could have the opportunity to study in world-class universities there. And lastly, working overseas will enrich and broaden the life experience of the workers and their families. They could have the chance to visit many great and historical places in the new country, learn a new language and make many new friends.
	Despite all the positive things about working overseas and bringing the family members, there are some negative things that people should notice. There is a chance of a culture shock for the family members, as there may be some traditions and customs that might not be fit with them. For example, many western people might not be accustomed to the culture of the Japanese people who will bend their head when they meet other people. And then, there might be some difficulties for the worker and the family members in adapting with the local foods. Many western people are not comfortable with the Asian foods due to most of them are using spices and chilli.
	In conclusion, it is true that numbers of people who are migrating overseas are increasing these days, and mostly they bring their families with them. Bringing family members to another country has its own positive and negative sides, but I believe that there are more benefits than the drawbacks, as long as we would learn to adjust and adapt to the new culture and environment.
Essay 1436:
	The recent developments in the term called "Globalization" have rendered people with numerous opportunities. The world has become a small village from a big planet called earth. With these changes, more and more people are opting to work in foreign territories along with their families. This approach is considered to be beneficial according to some people in terms of family relationships. While others argue that it can lead to some negative effects and therefore they should not bring their families. Therefore, in order to decide that which approach is beneficial, we will analyse both sides.
	To begin with, not taking your family members with you can have many adverse effects. First of all, it can become a hindrance as regards to building strong relationships. For instance, if your family is not living with you, the distance can weaken the relationship. It may even end up in separation as some people cannot bear long distance relationships. Secondly, it can put extra financial burden on the families. In exemplification, it is often seen that persons living and working in abroad can share their accommodations with others and hence have to pay lesser rents. On the other hand, if families are taken, then they have to rent an entire house. This can be especially burdensome in case a person has a big family. Finally, the members of the family have to face several problems in an alien country. Exemplifying that, it is often observed that children and older people have to experience cultural shocks and language barriers when they migrate to a new country.
	Similarly, this practice can facilitate one with multiple facilities. First and foremost is that it can be really helpful in case a person feels homesick. Having your loved ones near to you can bring you emotional support and it will also help us to strengthen our bonds. What is more, a person can become financially strong. As having more members mean higher income. Last but not least, it will be truly helpful for the children because they need the love and care of both parents and this age needs to be emphasised more. Also, they can get a better education and work opportunity by living in a developed country.
	At last, it can be concluded that both approaches have pros and cons in relation to family matters. I personally believe that the choice should be left for the person to decide. If he is financially capable of shouldering the responsibility, then taking the blood relatives is the best choice. And if he is unable to do so, it is better to go alone initially. However, the family should be called as soon as possible.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/984-parents-should-teach-children-how-to-be-good-members-of-society",
Essay 1437:
	As society has developed, different people have different opinions about how children should be taught the ways of living so that they can contribute their part and become good members of society. Some people think that parents should be leading from the front and some think that schools are the best place to teach these rules to the children. However, I think that parents should consider this as their responsibility instead of relying on the school to do this job.
	Now let us discuss if parents do this job and become successful in carrying out this task. This will not only help their children to live a good life but also teach them the rules and provide them with the guideline how to behave with juniors, respect elders, deal with day to day matters, responding to difficult situations etc., which you cannot expect from the school to teach as school is basically associated with academics. Although they will teach children how to become good members and play their roles in the society, the time, attention, sincerity, and dedication which I think that can be played by the parents only.
	Schools mostly teach academic lessons and punctuality to the students. They do not fully focus on moral values a child should learn and practice and in fact, they do not have sufficient scope to do so. Parents, on the other hand, have a good chance to do it. In many cases, the kids mimic the parents and thus the parents can make some examples to teach their kids. The kids mostly look at the teacher as some outsiders who would teach them the academic lesson, not personal values. Parents spent much more time with children than the teachers do. Teachers sometimes do not know the personal choices of students and thus can’t evaluate them perfectly. Not all teachers would take the responsibility to teach the students the responsibilities of a good member of society.
	Schools cannot replace the role and responsibility of parents because it deals with a large number of children and each and every child has his/ her own state of mind, understanding level, thinking level and it is not possible for teachers to understand each and every child and teach him/her accordingly but the parents know their children by birth know his likes, dislikes, how he can understand etc. I would like to give my example that my parents always considered first their own role to teach me only academics lessons but also how to live life successfully as they have spent their lives and the mistakes that they have made should not be repeated by me.
	In the end, I would like to conclude that parents should be the leading this part of this job and should not expect this role from the school and time will tell that their efforts will not go in vain and will not only help their children but also coming generations.
	(Total Words: 462 | Written by Mubashir Noorani)
	In today’s world, socialism and being a member of society is a crucial value in our life. Contributing positively to society is a target for everyone. Some people see that directing children to participate and being a member of the society is something that should be ensured by the parents’ duty, while another camp believes that it is a school’s task. Both sides of this debate will be analysed before drawing a conclusion.
	On the one hand, assigning parents to teach their children to be the good members of the society is supported by some people. For example, parents may teach their children and guide them to assist poor people by providing the food prepared by their parents. This example shows how parents may take the lead to guide their children to be positive and valued in society. Therefore, this idea is supported by many. The parents are more close to the children and they can teach their kids the important aspects of being a good member of society. Most of the children mimic their parents’ activities and thus the parents have a greater role in setting good examples for their kids.
	On the other hand, many believe that school plays a golden rule in children life. For instance, a school may prepare a campaign to their students to clean certain areas in their city. Such an attitude gives children practical experience in contributing to society. Thus, many argue that it would be better to leave this to the school. The teachers on behalf of the school have a big role to teach the students those responsibilities. Since students listen to their teachers’ suggestion and command, they are more likely to obey the things their teachers would teach. Finally, the curriculum and textbooks can include such topics to increase awareness among the students.
	In conclusion, the debate will always remain between both camps for assigning this responsibility. In my opinion, schools should take this task on their shoulders as the children spend most of their daytime there.
	It is considered by some that parents should teach their children about the ways to be good and civilised members of society while others hold the opinion that these values should be taught by the school. However, in my opinion, I believe that parents and school both are equally important to instil moral values, among children, to be a good citizen.
	On one hand, parents are the first teachers, and home is the first school where children learn about life lessons. Educating children about love, empathy, kindness, and socially acceptable behaviour is a must at home. In addition, children should be taught to help the needy members of the community because parents know their children well. Hence, they can teach their kids about social responsibilities effectively, which should not be ignored.
	On the other hand, school is the place where children are taught skills on various subjects that help to be self-reliant. When children gain education and various skills in school, it will help them in future to become self-dependent. This will also empower them to contribute towards society using their skills. For example, educated children may help to teach alphabets and help to read and write, to illiterate members of the society. Thus, in my opinion, children should be taught to be socially responsible by parents as well as at school. When children get such education of skills, love, and kindness they can grow to become a helpful member of society.
	In conclusion, the most effective method to help children to become morally and socially responsible part of a society is to teach them at home and also at school.
Essay 1438:
	In ancient societies, all children did not have access to education and in some parents did not teach to their children how to act. They wanted them to grow up as fast as possible to leave the family nest and go to work to bring money at home. In this period, education was not the core of people interest.
	In our modern society, education has become one of the most important tools in countries development. Nowadays, this is not surprising to see a government spend millions of dollars in its educational programs such as creating schools or bringing technological materials. But today, one main question stays on hold. Is it school’s role to teach children how to be good members of society or it is parents role?
	First, we will focus on this question and conclude with my own opinion. First of all, we all know that a child spends his/her first three years at home with the family before to enter school. For these three years, the child is already able to learn many things such as language and how to act in a good way. From this moment parents have to teach him how to start speaking and acting in an appropriate way.  As a result, once at school, he will know using a good vocabulary and for example, that hitting others classmates is not a good thing to do. Also, once entered at school parents have to continue to teach their child what are the good manners to adopt. For example, if the teachers do not stop to repeat those bad words are banned and absolutely not nice to use and that once gets home, the children hear many of them from his/her parents. He will be completely lost and do not understand what is wrong and what is not. The school has been instituted to teach children how to grow up in a good way, develop their inspirations and start living in a community with other students.
	To conclude, I agree that school possesses an important role in children integration. A child is going to reproduce, mimic and repeat his parents' behaviour first. Sometimes he is even going to choose of his parents as models. Which little girl has never fallen in love with her father and tries to mimic him? I truly believe that school and family have to work together to allow to the child to get the best education.
Essay 1439:
	We have been developing our personality throughout our entire life, yet the crucial time to mould our characteristic could happen at a rather young age. Some believe it is our families that define who we will become while others argue that it is the school’s utmost responsibility to teach us morality and to give us guidance. In my own perception, I am more positive with the former.
	The family is the first environment that we immersed ourselves in ever since we were born. The behaviour our parents deliver and the value they convey certainly have a colossal impact on our personality. It is also a vital process for a parent to teach their child the righteous perspective toward society at the very beginning. It is like creating a masterpiece on a pure canvas before it is contaminated.
	For people who believe that school should be the right place to educate students into obtaining the correct attitude of their lives and having the decent morality to become a good member of our society, they put their faith in the teachers. Teachers provide standard expectations that our society has for its members, offering knowledge and ideas with less bias and less possibility of deviation from the student. It is also essential for young children to meet other people, their classmates that are from various backgrounds, in order to help cultivate their ability to cherish and respect diversity.
	In conclusion, both points of views have their own dispute, yet for me, trying to build a child’s characteristic until they are already studying in schools seems to be a little too slow. Many values could have been buried deep in our mind. Thus, I believe it’s our family that should play the important role for this rather than the school afterwards.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/983-the-way-many-people-interact-with-each-other-has-changed",
Essay 1440:
	There is no doubt that many things had changed in the last few decades; some changes are for betterment and some changes are for worse. One of the fields which were greatly affected by the advent of technology is the way of interaction and communication.
	Without any doubt, technology has changed the way we lead our lives and these changes are prominent over the last decade. There are several improvements in life due to the positive effects of technology and there are some negative impacts as well. One area that has dramatically changed is the way we communicate and maintain our relationship nowadays. And in my opinion, technology has positively affected our communication and the way we make relationships and maintain it. Despite some negative effects, most of us enjoy the positive things the technology has bought for us. In the past, the ways of interaction were very limited. Unleash your imagination; if you want to speak with your friend, you would have to go directly to his house or send him a message which may take a few days to get a response. I completely believe that technology has a great tangible effect on our communication. Nowadays, it's very easy to interact with your relatives -and even with the government and organisations- either by emails, mobiles, chatting, etc. and I think that this has improved the relationships and enhanced it.
	We no longer need to visit a relative or friend to get updates. Alternatively, we can let them know our updates instantly. Besides personal communications, official and business communications have become easier. Email campaign offers a good marketing opportunity for business owners and people can complain about a certain thing using emails without exposing their identity. Not all of the people have the availability of technology and they still use the old form of communication. People now can deceive others using identity theft and fraud identity. The personal touch of communication like handwritten letters, face-to-face communications were more effective in some cases. Like meeting your friend is still more important than just writing him an email.
	We make so many friends via chatting or social networking which would not have been possible without the advancement of technology and its contribution to the communication. Cell phones, emails and social networking have enhanced the way of communicating and we can talk to anyone with a minimum cost. It's now not unusual to prepare for a visit and even several visits to your relatives and friends on the same day, while in the past this may have taken several weeks or months.
	To conclude, despite all that, I still see some failings in the development of the means of interaction. For instance, the very high cost each person spends every day on communication. Another defect, many elder people are not accustomed to this modern technology. But that doesn't have a great effect on the positive role technology has made in the field of interaction between people and I think these defects are very easy to be solved.
Essay 1441:
	Instead of being a true friend to the people around each other, most are being turned inward, forgetting the true definition of a friend. Human beings have feelings and they feel broken at times and do not always smile but the Internet only shows one's happy moments keeping one from fully being known. The types of friendships people make these days are quick and short-lasting. In real life friendship, people see each other at one’s best and worst time and remain there for one another. This can never be compared to a social network friendship. One can only get to know someone by spending time together for the reason that the Internet cannot replace shared experience and personal communication. However, due to the Internet, people can make friends anywhere from the world which was quite impossible in the past era. Finding school and college friends and getting in touch with them is an advantage that the Internet offers to us. However, true friendship is not possible if two people do not spend time together, share their common interests, talks a lot and help each other both in good and bad times.
	Rightfully, life is meant to be lived and have many physical experiences, bonding with another person’s physical presence. Instead of being a true friend to the people around each other, they are spending time online to make friends. This is, in my opinion, is a negative aspect of the digital era.
	In conclusion, making friends beyond boundaries and getting in touch with childhood friends could be the advantages of the digital era but the way we are becoming dependent on the technology and the way we are pretending to maintain our friendship online have negative consequences on our personal, moral and social aspects.
	It is true that technology in recent years has altered the path that people communicate with each other. There are many ways that technology affects our relationships, and in my opinion, this is a beneficial development.
	To begin with, the most obvious transformation in people relationships is how they communicate with each other. By this, I mean that the Internet has converted the world into a small village and nowadays people around the world can reach each other easily and rapidly. For example, a friend who lives in the UK can chat and talk with their friends in China using a mobile phone or social network.
	Another field in which technology affects our life is the way that people make friends. In other words, it has been observed that these days we can make friends from all nationalities without any effort or travel and this helps with culture interchange and help people who suffer.
	In my thought, this is a positive impact on the community for two reasons. Firstly, human life has become more convenient, this provides people with more opportunity to spend their leisure time with their kin. For instance, with the Internet, we can shop and work from our dwelling house without going outside anymore. Secondly, travel around the globe has become usable and cheap. As a result, people visiting each other and spend a lot of time together hence more connected society emerges.
	To conclude, as we have found out there is no easy answer to this question. Nevertheless, technology makes a huge difference in peoples' lives in terms of communication and I believe that this is a positive impact in our society.
Essay 1442:
	From the last century to these present days, there have been many changes in the way people interact with each other as there have been evolutionary changes in technological fields. One may say this transformation has negative effects on relationships between people or positive effects. I believe that there have been more positive effects than negative ones among the people due to the reasons that in few seconds of time people can contact their dearest ones and technology gives strength to people by making them closer to each other even if they are not.
	From the introduction of telecommunication and electronic mail, the lives of people turned out to be easier and communication among people became easier and more convenient. They can contact their families and friends using these advanced services over the countries. Without visiting their homes frequently, they can make money or accomplish their goals. For example, a military man has to serve his country at the borders and it is uneasy to go home and spend some time with his family and acquaintances thoroughly. However, he can make contact his family via telephone and other services. With the help of telecommunication and electronic mails, he can keep in touch with his family and buddies. In this way, technology makes people close to each other. This absolutely positive development as we have huge benefits using technology.
	With the absence of one's dearest one, he used to be all alone before the introduction of technology. But, it is possible to get in touch with his sweetheart. And also, he can send and receive the money within seconds over the thousands of miles using the latest money transfer machines. As a result, he can look over and take care of his family's financial problems and needs without his presence at his home. For instance, my uncle who stays in the United States calls his family and others via ‘Skype’ daily whereas, my dad who used to work in Dubai could not keep in touch with us as at that time the telecommunication had not installed in my village. Thus, that made my father bound to visit us frequently. Consequently, he spent a large amount of money travelling and could not communicate us as frequently as he wanted to.
	In many positive ways, the technology has affected the relationships between people and I would say these are positive developments. Imagine without technology, what would happen to the people and the world. In many ways, we are getting the help of using technology. 
Essay 1443:
	Technological developments in this modern era have transformed the way we socialise. Advancements in communication networks have played a vital role in bringing people closer. In my opinion, there are both pros and cons of this development and this essay will analyse how technology has changed the types of relationships made by people.
	In ancient times, people used letters and telegrams to interact with each other. With the advent of modern communication systems like the telephone and the Internet, people can collaborate more effectively. For instance, we can interact through emails rather than letter and businessman can have online meetings through the conference calls.
	Another reason is the widespread use of social networks over the internet; for instance, Facebook, where men and women can now make friends online and interact with them through the post, message and online chat. Video conferencing in the form of Skype has improved instructor and student relationship. Online messaging platforms like mIRC has given people the luxury to choose their own discussion-based chat rooms. There are more ways to socialise now than they used to be in past.
	All these advancements in technology come up with their merits and demerits. Letters, memos and telegrams are replaced by emails and text messages. Human resource hiring can be done through online video conferencing which has eliminated the need for physical presence and travelling requirement. We can now mingle more through Facebook, Pinterest, Google+, Instagram and Orkut and so on. Though one can regard these as positive developments, they do have some negative aspects. These developments have isolated people and discouraged real-world interaction. For instance, youth, in particular, prefers to choose to mix up with people online rather than socialising with them in the real world.
	To conclude, technology has no doubt revolutionised the way we interact and hang out but has greatly reduced real-world interaction. Though these virtual relations tend to be positive, we should not deny the importance of physical interaction in our lives.
Essay 1444:
	Everything has two sides, and the ‘effects of technology on people’s relationship’ is not an exception. We cannot deny how much technology transformed the individual reaction with others in his family and the surrounding community.
	In my opinion, technology has affected and transformed our life aspects and dealing with other people in a good way. Recently, we have different fast and cheap methods to call our family and friends. Moreover, some technologies are giving us chances to see and talk with them at the same time. In addition, we are informed on a daily basis with the last updates and news about our friends and family, so we can remember the birthdays, graduation parties and even marriage anniversary. Furthermore, these methods make it faster and easier to call and congratulate another individual.
	On the other hand, many people believe that technology is affecting individual relationship badly. They opine that, if we did not have these kinds of technology, we would have been visiting each other regularly.
	Not only that, but individuals will not be isolated from each other, especially those who are addicted to using social networking platforms.  As a matter of fact, people become talking to each other in a face-to-face method rarely. In particular, people’s personalities are changing so much, because of addiction in using Facebook. It’s one of the vital reasons to decrease confidence and self-esteem.
	As can be seen, even if we have some bad effects of technology and how it changed the way people contact each other, but we still have much more effects. We can obtain many easy and cheaper methods to contact each other. In fact, technology has enhanced our life and the way we are contacting each other.
Essay 1445:
	Today, various brand new methods of telecommunications have tremendously influenced social behaviour. Although their impacts have benefited human lifestyle, they have had some costs as well. However, before evaluating their advantages and disadvantages, it is better to reveal how these breakthroughs affect the ways people relate to each other.
	In the old times, when someone wanted to communicate, there were extremely limited means of doing so. Indeed, he should write a letter or have a face to face conversation. Likewise, it was possible to be acquainted with new faces either by meeting them personally or being introduced by family and friends.
	On the other hand, substantial technological progress has happened in recent years. For instance, smartphones can be utilised both by direct calls and via different applications. Alternatively, the internet can be used whether by offline methods like e-mail or by online protocols like chatting programs. Moreover, social networking is another rich aspect of the internet by which everybody is able to find new friends or search for old missed ones, and it can be used to interact with current relatives as well. Clearly, not only have modern technologies facilitated human interactions, but they also diversified his relationships.
	On the debit side, excessive use of virtual connections might weaken the personal relationship with reality. While it seems that people are aware of each other statuses on a daily basis, even up-to-the-minute, they may overlook loved ones’ emotional states due to the negligence of their presence.
	All in all, contemplating the pros and cons of these phenomena simultaneously, I should say it depends on the person who utilises these state-of-the-art technologies. If he applies them wisely, their pluses will definitely overshadow their pitfalls. After all, in my viewpoint, humankind can eventually address this issue in favour of his civilisation. Hence, I assume it as a mainly positive development in the long run.
Essay 1446:
	People used to communicate by meeting each other while it has nowadays totally changed since technological advancement. Some assert that utilising technology in daily communication brings more harm than good things. I personally agree with this view and this essay will look into the reason with some considerations.
	The first effect of technology usage is that it reduces the sense of togetherness among people. Since they do interaction via telecommunication such as a mobile phone or the internet, it reduces the personal relationship. People cannot catch moments during interaction because they communicate in unreal situations. Taken social media as an example, most teenagers talk to their friend via utilising Facebook, Viber, WhatsApp or others. They tend to interact with each other via sending messages thus they can feel the situation or even communication sense just by reading the messages. By contrast, direct communication tends to develop a sense of belonging among people. They will be more comfortable to express their feelings thus it is easy to get along together.
	In addition, it will deteriorate the human behaviour. By using electronic devices in the daily life of communication, it is hard for them to involve in a social environment. It will decrease their self-confidence to speak in public because they usually interact through devices not face to face communication. Moreover, utilising technology in interaction is not free thus you should they should prepare much budget just for communication.
	It is true that technology usages enable people to keep in touch with people who live in different places. However, it is not capable of providing a sense of feeling as well as direct communication.
	To sum up, by communicating directly, it will help people keeping close each other and able to talk towards them easily and expressively.
Essay 1447:
	The 21st century has been a game-changer in all aspects of human life. The same case is with relationships which have also taken a new dimension with technological advancement. Nowadays, the relationships are much more fragile, materialistic, mistrust and doubtful as compared to the previous times. I reckon, that overall this development has been quite negative which will be analysed in our paragraphs to follow.
	To start with, nowadays technology has made relationships between humans quite suspicious. People are getting involved in relationships just on social networking websites without even knowing who is actually communicating with them. For instance, there have been many cases in which the person you are in contact with, is actually fake and fraud. He is just playing and making fool of you and you believe that you are making a friend or falling in love with him. Consequently, when you know the truth it is just like a bolt from the blue and your feeling is eradicated. This is evident from the argument above the reality of that technological relationship can be quite painful sometimes.
	Further, the new era connections between people can be quite fragile and weak as compared to the strength of relationships before the advent of technology. People without practically meeting each other and actually knowing their strength and weaknesses tend to trust each other too much and when they face the true facts the relationships are affected and in some cases broken down. For instance, a survey was conducted by Indian newspaper regarding the success of technology relationships and the result was reconciling with the point that relationships are very poor and the failure rate was quite high.
	To sum up, these technological relationships have altered the connectivity between two people. I firmly believe that drawbacks outweigh much more as compared to the fruits of these new relationships. However, It is recommended that people should be extremely careful and cautious in making any sought of relationships on social networking websites, chatting software etc.
Essay 1448:
	Technology has been affecting many aspects of human life including the way people interact with one another. Some believe that it has more benefits for people’s connection than drawbacks, while others contradict it. I personally argue with the former opinion, and through this essay, I am going to explain my reasons.
	Initially, the first reason that I am going to elaborate is the way technology enhancing better communication among people. A large number of communication gadgets has been invented in order to help communication between people, even for those who are separated by spacious distance, getting simpler and quicker. Thus, by giving an easier chance to be connected, this development has been encouraging society’s sense of togetherness. They do not have to visit their colleagues which are in different regions or cities to ask their condition, for instance, because they could just pick up their phone and call their friends.
	Subsequently, the variety of communication technology has been developed even further. The purpose is not only to make it easier but also to reach a better quality of communication. We can mention video call, voice messenger and social media as the parts of it. The users are not limited by the elder method of phone call anymore. They can communicate more interactively by using video call. Therefore, they can communicate with others in the wider range of connection by using social media such as Facebook, Twitter or Instagram. This situation will globally lead people into a worldwide relationship.
	On the other hand, there has been a developing trend that people are becoming more individualistic as the effect of technological development. The decreasing opportunity of direct interaction among them is accused as the root of this problem. However, it depends on us as the users to utilise technology wisely. If we can maintain a balance between communication technology and the conventional way of communication, the problem will certainly disappear.
	Eventually, the advantages of using technology as part of our communication types overweight the disadvantages, as long as we can manage it to be the helper, not the looser.
Essay 1449:
	It is true that some people have shifted their way to keep in touch with others due to the innovation of technology. Massive usage of devices in communication, particularly, phone and the internet can be stated as the main different compares to the past. People rely on those technologies to connect with families, friends and colleagues. Personally, I reckon that this trend may lead people to have a better relationship due to the effectiveness and low cost of communication.
	To begin with, the interaction of individuals is presently not limited in one model. It means that people have many choices to stay connecting others than before. Technology offers some applications such as email, Facebook or Twitter. Those social media serve advantages to enhance and build a relationship with others. For example, in workplaces, employees do not have to meet in a certain place to discuss something. Rather they can use the video conference to do a meeting. Therefore, various types of communication tools can help people to choose their preference and purpose in communication.
	Furthermore, the usage of technology in communication leads to some positive things. It can be assumed that the easiness and effectiveness which are offered by these devices maximise the quality of people life in term of maintenance the relation of people. In addition, these communication tools allow people to spend less money and time. In other words, individuals do not have to visit someone when they want to talk or know friends’ news. Young people nowadays have friends from different countries and can have more friends. They can share their thoughts and updates instantly, which was quite impossible in the past. Some people might argue that people rely too much on technology and that’s they keep a less personal relationship with others. However, I disagree and want to say that, technology has made it possible to connect with a dear one, make new friends and build up relationships in a more convenient way.  
	In conclusion, people always pick up the best and most efficient way of communication and the widespread use of the internet, mobile phone and other ways of communication have positively impacted our life and the way we make and keep our relationship. 
Essay 1450:
	It is commonly noticed that people surrounding us stay connected with other people via social networking sites or other applications and technology have totally changed the way people used to communicate, make friends and keep their relationship. This paradigm shift happened basically because of the advances in technology and widespread use of such technological applications. Shall we welcome this shift or be wary about the changes? In this essay, I am going to discuss how technology has affected the types of relationships people make and whether it is considered as a positive or negative development.
	First and foremost, I think that the development of technology has enhanced the relationships people make and maintain. For instance, when a student studies abroad and stays far away from his or her family and friends, social networking sites and other applications can help the student stay connected with his or her family and friends through Skype, for instance. In my opinion, in this case, this is a positive development to deal with homesickness or maintain our interactions with people we care about. By comparing to the past decade, when technology was not so advanced, people had to depend on letters to communicate with each other and that was a time-consuming method and it incurred higher cost. In contrast, in today’s world, people just have to be on laptops or smartphones and can have direct communication and interaction with family and friends. They can see each other contrary to the past method of interchanging written words. In this way, people can keep a close relationship with family and friends. We can now make friends beyond borders and that enhances our perspective about other nations and customs. Online groups, social platform and social networking sites bring people together who have common interests and there are many events those people meet and plan for the betterment of society.         
	In fact, the implication of technology on people’s relationship is a controversial issue. On the one hand, it is a positive development for helping people stay connected with family and friends and making new friends. On the other hand, it can estrange the relationships people make. The argument that it has a negative influence on people’s relationship is based on the scenario that people will avoid face-to-face communication in the long run. Recent research indicates that virtual communication will weaken the communication skill of a person. I still remember a film that I watched had a scene that showed four friends were having meals in a restaurant. When they sat together, they did not interact with each other face-to-face but through social applications by sending out the emotions in the social group to show their feelings. This example shows a worrying trend as people enjoy interacting virtually more than face to face due to their reliance on technology. It is important to create awareness to the public that actual communication is more important than virtual interaction to minimise its repercussion.
	Overall, as far as I am concerned, the advancement of technology has both positive and negative effects on the kind of relationships people make. We have to be aware that actual interaction is more important to enhance a relationship. We shall connect with family and friends virtually only if we are apart from them. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/886-coins-and-paper-money-will-soon-be-replaced-by-credit-and-bank-cards",
Essay 1451:
	With the technological advancements in the banking system, nowadays people are presented with numerous ways of paying for purchases. It is often said that electronically operated banking cards will displace the use of paper money and coins. However, I don’t believe that modern payment methods will take over completely from traditional banknotes and coins.
	There are various advantages of modern monetary exchange. Firstly, it is now increasingly common for people to shop online where they cannot use paper money and coins to pay. Thus, people eventually embrace the modern method of payment to be able to participate in online commerce. Secondly, the security features of credit cards and online method of monetary exchange give authorities the capability of tracing the use of the cards. However, if the person carrying money is robbed then it is difficult to find out where the stolen money is used. Furthermore, the safety features of modern monetary exchange will be invaluable for people who want to keep their hard-earned money safe.
	Even though electronic cards have brought tremendous comforts and convenience to people, these cannot entirely replace the traditional money exchange. Paper money and metal coins have long been used as a medium of exchange and a standard of value in almost all societies. Thus, the traditional monetary system has a cultural, historical and social background which are impossible to change. Internet banking is not always fully secured. There is ample evidence of computer viruses, hackers and crimes. Humans have developed a certain emotional bonding with paper money and coins. Coin collectors, for example, will inevitably get hurt after entire replacement of traditional money and coins.
	In conclusion, the modern monetary exchange has certainly benefited people by bringing convenience and avoiding certain problems from using paper money and coins.
Essay 1452:
	As we know consumer behaviour has changed remarkably by the use of plastic cards like debit cards credit cards and such tremendous changes have completely affected our daily life. It is likely that we will no longer use paper money in near future and will create a friendly and safer cashless society. I partially agree with this perspective.
	On the one hand, I totally accept that the development of credit cards and debit cards benefits people a lot. We can easily sum up bills in one payment, efficiently manage accounts and even pick up a luxury handbag or any other product from an overseas website and pay online. There are also extra services which are provided by credit card companies such as payment insurance, protections of shopping etc. Due to the fact, people get used to plastic money which impulsive several companies like Apple and Alibaba to develop further virtual payment such as the mobile wallet.  Finally, this trend will lead us to a new generation of cashless society.
	On the other hand, the forms of money had transited in our human history several times, from shells, rare metal to plastic money, and now we are still in the period of transition. No one can promise a cashless society will make our payment safer and completely better for the individual. There is a good amount of coverage and news reveal that some people do not revolve their credit and overuse credit card. Furthermore, credit card fraud can happen in several ways, and it is difficult for people to prevent it by themselves or even deal with it. Thus, a cashless society may not equal to a well-protected or more suitable world for everyone.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that plastic money improves our life and a society without cash will be coming soon. However, I doubt that there will be much higher in quality and harmless for ordinary people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/657-unpaid-community-service-should-be-compulsory-part-of-high-school",
Essay 1453:
	In the last few years, many new ideas and beliefs arose aiming to improve society and reinforce the relationship between members of a society. One of the proposed ideas, yet under observation, is to make it compulsory for high school students to do some programmes, of course, charity ones, to assist their community.
	Firstly, I am completely supporting the idea that: helping promote the society is one of the main duties of a righteous and positive member. Imagine that in the vacation, some youths, and even all ages, work for charitable organisations which help the poor, the sick, the learners and others. Imagine other group cleaning and decorating the streets- of course, that won't affect their dignity- or teaching the young. Indeed that will lead to an extremely modern, civilised and loving community. However, all these are examples, and there are many other ways to improve societies, both charitable and uncharitable methods. Despite this, the idea of compulsory charitable work doesn't sound good for me. I believe that making that compulsory, will not lead to the heroic purpose of the charitable work i.e. the inner desire to help others, but, instead, will make it a type of finishing your work.
	In conclusion, I think there are other better ways to promote the society without making it compulsory; the sitting compulsory subjects are enough.
Essay 1454:
	People have divergent attitudes towards the unpaid community services. Certain people strongly argue that these types of services should be included in high school education such as charity activities, teaching other children and activities for society. Even though it has some positives, it should not be included in the high school education due to various reasons.
	Unpaid community services should not be mandatory in the high school programmes. First and foremost, students have a lot of subjects to study within a limited period of time and that would become even harder in case the community programmes are made compulsory for them. For example, in India, most of the schools have added more subjects recently in the curriculum of high schools.  Besides, if they are to perform such community activities, they would definitely face challenges in the academic area and sometimes, they may fail in the examinations.
	Moreover, during this period of time, most of the students are not mature enough. Since they are not capable of handling service programmes effectively, they may feel difficulties and dissatisfied while implementing such activities among others. In addition, it would develop a negative attitude towards the unpaid community services from the tender age. Consequently, they may lose interest in doing those kinds of services later on.
	However, one should not ignore the fact that if community services become a part of high school education, everyone gets a chance to work for society. Thus, these programmes instil moral and ethical values in the mind of children which is degenerating today’s generation enormously. Nevertheless, I think that students should be more focused on education and should not be forced to do something that might detract them from their main target and task.  
	To conclude, despite some advantages, unpaid community services should not be promoted in the early stages of education.
Essay 1455:
	What is the likely outcome, if unpaid community services make mandatory part of the high school programme? To comment on this subject, I am including a study, which collected statistical data taken from polls conducted, recently, among diverse segments of society. The majority of participants supported the idea, whereas others disagreed with the idea. In subsequent paragraphs, I will discuss the opinion expressed by participants of study with a personal choice of aligning myself with the majority of the society.
	According to the survey, there should be no social unpaid work because such an activity will hinder student’s studies. The students will have to take time out of studies diluting concentration. In addition, if social community services are compulsory, then a child might become a victim of bad society trends, especially in their teenage time. The study shows that those participants who had the aforementioned views were in limited number. Some of these opponents presented their ideas logically whereas some others were impulsive and rigid followers of social taboos.
	On the other hand, a large majority of those interviewed agreed with the idea, viz. unpaid community services should be a compulsory part of high school programmes. They explained that poor and needy families - which are a part of our society - will be benefitted by this idea. Such a programme will help to build a healthy society.
Essay 1456:
	Nowadays, many people held the theory that non-profit organisation services should be implemented with secondary schools systems. While others believe that it will be hard and much costly for both school teachers and students. Both sides will be analysed before a reasoned conclusion is drawn.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/654-children-to-begin-learning-a-foreign-language-at-primary-school",
Essay 1457:
	Due to the advancements in communication systems, the relation among nations has been increased markedly. As a result of this, learning a foreign language at an early age has become a controversial issue in the global village. Some experts claim that primary school is the best place for learning another language instead of secondary school. I firmly believe that there is a defensible basis for this argument.
	The proponents of this view discuss that there are many reasons behind of their claims. The most important one is about recent research. The studies have shown that the children between 4-9 ages have a great opportunity to learn new languages. Also, they clarify their claims by an example, a survey among 200 pupils, has shown that the above mention ages have a crucial role in children building character and developing their personality. Moreover, give the special care and settle down proper curriculum could be much beneficial for them in this way. Consequently, because of carefree mind children can catch more points in this level.
	In parallel, I personally side with this idea. The key point to justify this attitude could be illustrated by a personal tangible example. A couple of years ago, I met a German family with an interesting story. To cut the long story short, Lucas, the first child of the family, has started learning the English language at secondary school and now the level of his English skill is almost intermediate. Conversely, his sister has started English and France together at primary school. Now, she can speak very fluently both of them. On balance, beyond a shadow of a doubt, the primary school can pave the way for learning a foreign language easily. Although, it should be considered that the method and atmosphere of the school play a key role in learning.
	All in all, we should own up to the fact that learning a foreign language has become a key factor in our lifelong. It goes without saying, having a strong basis in a new language can uplift us towards prosperity. Primary schools are the best places to enhance our children's language ability. Also, in this special span, the pupil’s minds are dead ready to catch an awful lot of new things and what could better than learning a second language than that.
Essay 1458:
	It is widely believed that studying a foreign language in the first year of school is more effective than in secondary school for children. Drawbacks and benefits of this topic will be covered in this essay.
	On the one hand, pupils studying only three or four years in the school even at that moment do not properly concentrate on the lessons. It could be difficult to compel children to learn something else besides their curriculum subjects. For instance, my little sister always wants to play, even if there are loose ends. In addition, students of a primary school firstly should learn the fundamentals of exact science such as mathematics and physics. Otherwise, they might not understand them later. Furthermore, if a student does not know his native language perfectly, it is useless to learn a foreign dialect for him.
	On the other hand, this is a fact that children, who are approximately between five and nine years, have the capacity to remember things twice as fast and effectively than people from other age groups. For example, when I was in the third-fifth grades, I used to memorise new words very quickly and for a long period.  However, now I cannot even learn many new phrases. Secondly, studying a foreign language is very helpful. Students can understand the expression, lifestyle and culture of a different country and is helpful for enhancing their perspectives. English is an international language on which over one billion of people are communicating. Hence, being able to learn a second language will give competitive advantages for the children.
	To sum up, the minor disadvantages will never prevent us from concluding that knowing foreign phrases will be never excessive. In future knowing one more language might be very prestigious.
Essay 1459:
	Learning a foreign language is a new trend followed nowadays. Even in schools’ curriculum, a subject with a different language is a must. Many believe that students at primary schools should start learning a foreign tongue and should not wait till secondary school level. I also believe that it has several advantages. The growth of an individual brain and increase in opportunities will support the argument.
	Firstly, learning a foreign language is helpful for the growth of a child’s brain. A study by United Nations has proved that learning any language other than the native one activates various new parts of the brain which were never used before. As a result, it increases the grasping and learning-power of a child. Not only this, it also accelerates the working of one’s brain. Therefore, making kids to learn a new language at an early age will help them in their mental growth.
	Also, nowadays people are getting drifted towards multinational companies. Here, opportunities are more for employees who know more than one language. Being multilingual helps a person get onsite opportunities. Hence, getting growth in career depends on this. Infosys, for instance, gives priority to their employees who have a good command over the English language, for any vacancy they have in the USA. So, getting used to a language at an early age will make one comfortable and confident.
	Looking at the points discussed above, we can come to a conclusion that advantages of learning a foreign language at an early age outweigh the disadvantages. Therefore, this practice must be followed by all the nations. I believe many countries will include a foreign language in its school as a mandatory subject for the advantages it has to offer.
Essay 1460:
	Some experts think that the best time for young people to learn a new language is at primary school. While this could bring many benefits and drawbacks. I believe that the advantages are far more than the disadvantages.
	Learning a foreign language at primary could have some possible disadvantages. Firstly, it could be a waste of time since children need to focus on other subjects such as math, science, and their own mother tongue language, which they might need it more than the foreign one. Secondly, children may get confused because of learning many languages at the same time and this could have a negative impact on their development. For example, it is claimed that bilingual children develop the ability to talk more slowly than monolingual kids.
	On the other hand, I think that children learn faster at a young age because they are less self-conscious and shy. So they can easily pick up the right pronunciation and try to copy it. Furthermore, children enjoy practising languages through games. Thus, learning and copying others could be a fun in itself for them. In other words, for children learning languages is not a hard task as it is for adults. In addition, languages nowadays are as important as science and math. Acquiring an international language like English could be very important for young people to get better job opportunities in the future.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that the benefits of teaching children foreign languages as soon as possible outweigh the drawbacks.
Essay 1461:
	In today's modern world, language plays an indispensable role in both studies and jobs as well as during socialising. Thus, some professionals encourage the children nowadays to start learning a foreign language at primary school and claim that it will be too late for children to learn it in secondary school. In this essay, we will examine both the benefits and drawbacks of this issue.
	Undoubtedly, learning a totally new language is tiring and requires more time to master it. It, indirectly, increases the burden of a primary school pupil who is supposed to learn new things in a stress-free environment. If they have to learn a new language in primary school, they will be loaded with more tonnes of homework every day. In fact, more time should be allocated to study more useful subjects such as Science and Mathematics. These subjects are considered as stepping stones to a prospective job. If one day they become a scientist or a doctor, they may contribute endlessly to our nation by inventing essential drugs in combating diseases.
	However, there is another side of a coin always. To begin with, picking up a foreign language enables the children to develop a better foundation in a foreign language. They are more likely to speak it more confidently in front of the crowds. It is proven that children who learn a new language tend to make fewer mistakes in writing an essay. Not forgetting to mention that, they will have the ability to express things more clearly as they have a better vocabulary than those who start late. In addition, they may come across with foreign cultures when learning a foreign language. To illustrate, it can be learnt from the literature and poems. By knowing the culture of others, they may not experience cultural shock and are able to adapt well when staying in other countries for the purpose of studying. They are, obviously, become more knowledgeable and more open-minded which help them to look at a specific issue from different perspectives.
	In conclusion, the benefits of learning a foreign language in primary education apparently outweigh the drawbacks. I believe a person equipped with more languages is definitely needed in our society to make our country more prosperous and flourished in the decade to come.
Essay 1462:
	In our modern society, the question whether the children should start to learn a foreign language at the primary school has been widely discussed. A fair portion of people believes that studying a new foreign language at primary school is better than secondary school for children, while others hold the opposite point of view. As for me, I side with the first one.
	On the one hand, children at a young age are fast learners. The recent research published an education centre, indicates that children can master different languages as many as five. For some kids in China, they can even start three different languages, such English, French and German together when they are six years old. Apparently, young children have more ability to learn foreign languages. In this case, as the first study institution, primary school should offer the class of the foreign language studying for children.
	On the other hand, more subjects open in secondary school is the other main reason that a second language study should be started at a young age. Children start to learn some new subjects, such as Chemistry, Biology and History. The more classes they have, the more homework they need to do after school. Obviously, they would spend a little time on a foreign language. There is no doubt that it takes time to master a foreign language, especially the pronunciation. If they spend enough time on practising their speaking ability, how could we expect Chinese children speak fluent English? Therefore, children should learn a foreign language at primary school, instead of secondary school.
	In conclusion, in order to learn a foreign language, it is better to start it at the primary school rather than the secondary school for children.
Essay 1463:
	Scholars have recently debated an issue of whether or not a foreign language should be taught in elementary school instead of higher level. There are, certainly, some consequences of teaching foreign language in primary school, both positive and negative results. These points of views will be elaborated through the following paragraphs.
	To begin with, scholars believe that understanding a foreign language in elementary school may contribute a more incredible communication skill of pupil in the future regarding their ability to catch up insight is incredibly fascinating during this period. This phenomenon is related to a fact that elementary school period is considered as “golden period” of pupils since their brain cells grow remarkably connecting one cell another in the whole brain hemisphere. Indonesian pupils, who learn English while they are in primary schools, for example, can speak English more fluently than those who do not get the same treatment at the same level.
	Despite, the gain, there can be a lack stumbling learning an international language in elementary schools. Teachers’ ability is the real example. Most of the teachers in primary schools are generalists and get used to deal with more general subjects in school. By asking them to teach foreign languages, English, for example, may be a difficulty in conveying knowledge over that such specific subject to students. And therefore, when entering higher level school, there will be a wide variety of students understanding in English and will lead to a problem of adjusting what particular topics should be given to students in the higher level.
	All in all, understanding foreign speaking in primary school can be achieved through maximising the golden period of students. However, the capability of teachers also must be considered in order to ensure the subject distributed well to students.
Essay 1464:
	It is true that foreign languages should be taught at the primary school level for the betterment of children. I strongly believe that it has more advantages than the disadvantages.
	There are several advantages of studying a foreign language from primary level. First and foremost, during this period, children are more flexible and they can grasp any language very easily. But, if they try to learn in their secondary level, they cannot follow rules and regulations of other languages easily due to the greater influence of mother language. Next, naturally, children are more curious and eager to learn new things in their tender age. Therefore, proficiency and fluency in new or unfamiliar language can be achieved at primary school which would help them enormously in the long run. Lastly, excellence in foreign languages is greatly beneficial for professional development as well as financial betterment. Since a long time is needed for acquiring deep knowledge in every language, every child has to start learning a second language as early as possible, otherwise, their future will not be safe.
	However, there are certain drawbacks that cannot be avoided if a child starts learning a foreign language in the very early stage. Firstly, they cannot understand the real meaning of many aspects of the language as they are not mature enough. Moreover, they sometimes do not take the language learning seriously. As a result, the importance of that language will be reduced in their mind, which would cause many detrimental effects. Furthermore, sometimes, children show disrespect and lack of interest towards foreign language because of the increased workload in schools. As a consequence, they may develop a negative attitude in learning, especially towards language learning.
	To conclude, despite certain disadvantages, a vast amount of benefits should be considered by society and individuals while deciding whether their school going children should learn a foreign language or not.
Essay 1465:
	Some experts believe that it is better for children to begin learning a foreign language at primary school rather than secondary school.
	Do the advantages of this outweigh the disadvantages?
	As commonly seen in the most parts of the world today, the trend among children, especially those in kindergartens or in elementary schools, learning English or a second language is on the rise. Some people believe that it is a good thing, while others claim that it will be an extra burden for them in such an early age and the learning of a second language should be started at the secondary level. In my opinion, this trend, on the whole, brings more advantages than disadvantages. I will analyse both sides of the arguments before a reasoned conclusion is drawn.
	On the one hand, the supporters of this trend emphasis on the adaptability and quick learning abilities of juveniles. This is to say, children have a higher capability of learning new languages as compared to elders. For example, according to a recent research conducted by UNICEF, learning pace of children is 40% much faster in their early age rather when they are young. Hence, it is certainly a welcoming effort to teach them a second language at an early age.
	On the other hand, the syndicates who refute this idea show their concerns that toddlers are usually highly occupied with their academic syllabus. Therefore, to get them learning a new language will inevitably put an additional burden beside their studies. For instance, it can be clearly seen that children who bear the extra pressure of studies eventually get affected by health related issues. Thus, we should not neglect the element of health’s hazards in any learning process.
	To summarise, by analysing both sides of the view, it is clear that both sides present solid evidence. However, I strongly believe that learning English at an early age is undeniably more favourable in terms of adaptable and flexible nature of children. Therefore, advantages of learning a second language in kindergarten outweigh its disadvantages.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/635-teenage-years-are-the-happiest-times-of-most-peoples-lives",
Essay 1466:
	Happiness is very hard to define and it varies from person to person. While some people strive for economic success and a good social life and think that those are the main ingredient for happiness, on the contrary people who already have amassed enough riches and enjoy a good social and personal life thinks other aspects of life for being happy. The issue whether teenage times are the happiest part of our lives or not is a debatable issue and people are divided in their opinion regarding this. According to another group, adult part of the life is happier part of our lives. In my opinion, both groups have their reasoning and happiness is a state of mind that can be achieved in both parts of the life.
	Teen ages are the ages of dream, freedom and recklessness. This is the period when most of the teenagers do not have greater responsibilities like adult people and they enjoy lives full of joys, dream, vision. Less complexity of life touches the teenagers and the struggles they face often get redeemed with time. The harsh cruelty and complexity of life rarely touch the teenagers and they live a life which is often better than the adult people around them. Yet, this is not always true; many teenagers struggle a lot to support their family and suffer from psychological issues that might make their lives pretty complex. They mostly depend on their parents for money and are mostly guided by their parents for decisions. There are many untouched parts of life that they can’t enjoy and on the other hand that makes them less stressful. They enjoy a sound physical condition and rarely suffer from illness related to old ages.
	On the contrary, adult life offers more economic freedom in one hand and on the contrary many unavoidable responsibilities. The grown-up people decide their journey of life themselves and this is a freedom very few teenagers enjoy. The happiness a father feels while playing with his sons and daughters is unimaginable for a teenager. On the contrary, the suffering a father or a mother endures on their hearts for the well-being of their children is also inconceivable for teenagers. The work pressure, the responsibility, the physical conditions, the complexities and harsh reality of life make the matured life often unbearable and those people consider their teenage part as the happiest part of their life.
	Old times are good times and this is true for all of us. We revere the bygone times and the present is the reality which is not always smooth. In my opinion, life is as it is and being able to happy is not abide by any rules or times. Our head is a place where we can make the hell into the heaven and both earlier ages and grown up ages of our lives have their offering for being happy. We need to decide whether we want to be happy and contented with whatever we have or complain about the life.
Essay 1467:
	It is quite clear that life stands for various meanings depending on people. On the one hand, there is a school of thought that we have a great chance to have the feeling of happiness in teen years, on the other hand, there are some those who maintain that adult life provides us with the opportunity of happiness. The merits of these both arguments will be analysed before a conclusion is decided upon.
	Firstly, it is believed that people under eighteen enjoy life considerably more than mature ones. For example, their duties consist of going to school, playing outside with their peers, in addition to this, when they want some items like toys, bicycle as well as edible stuff like an ice cream are provided by their parents. Besides, they are not responsible for some issues such as family-relating and financial problems.  As a result, all these factors contribute them to get pleasure from life more than people over 18. Thus, the heightened benefits of this point can be clearly seen.
	However, some argue that there is a wide range of things which only adults have a chance to take advantage of them. To make my opinion crystal clear, I can give an example from my country: if you feel like joining any entertainment clubs or bars, you do not have any access to those places unless you are 18 plus. Besides that, middle-aged people are good at understanding life. As a consequence, all these features lead to happiness. Therefore, it is said that adulthood years are happier than that of childhood. However, the merits of this opinion are hard to support.
	After looking at these two opposing views, it is felt that we tend to possess joyful times, days, years in childhood, it is hoped that children will be probably encouraged by their parents to have a great time in their childhood. Life is not always a bowl of cherries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/634-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-215-subjects-that-children-are-taught-in-schools-are-decided-by-central-authorities",
Essay 1468:
	While some people argue that the decision about what subjects are taught at school should be decided by teachers. I believe that it is rather governments’ responsibility to decide.
	There are many reasons why the decision of school subjects should be taken by central authorities. Firstly, governments have a better idea about the society and the economic needs of the people. Their knowledge is built upon studies, research and experiences gathered by experts from different fields. For example, in Sudan, the school curriculum has been changed to a new one since the year 2000. To involve more subjects that teach students practical skills such as farming,  as a measurement to tackle the unemployment problem in the country. Secondly, teachers should be more concerned about how to deliver the information. They decide when and how to teach several subjects based on their experience about children’s capabilities. In other words, teachers are more experienced in teaching than in social or economic issues.
	On the other hand, the authorities’ role is to ensure the best quality of schooling throughout the country. They compare different schools to know their needs of education resources in order to reach the aimed level of education. However, it would be difficult to identify those needs if each school has its own curriculum for its unique requirements. In addition, if school teachers decide what are the subjects to be covered then we would have a situation of too much variation in standards and qualification, which is obviously unfair, because some young children, for instance, would receive a better education than others as a result of this and in turn people might lose their faith in the education system in the country.
	In conclusion, it seems to me that both governments and teachers have their distinctive role in education. However, it would more beneficial for the society if governments are kept to be responsible for setting schools’ curriculum.
Essay 1469:
	In most of the countries, the academic curriculums are decided by a board of people who mostly come from higher positions of education board and from other ministry or cabinet. They review the subjects taught in schools and do necessary modification and amendment. Some people opine that this responsibility should be given to the teachers who have better teaching experience and closely understand the students who study those subjects. I personally believe that politicians who have no previous teaching or educational institute related experience should not be included on this review board. Rather teachers with good experience and qualified persons from the education ministry, who came from the educational background, should decide this important agenda.
	First of all, if politicians, who have no teaching experience and have little knowledge about the students, are included on this board, that would negatively impact the overall syllabus. Their primary motive would be to add topics and subjects that somehow politically help them. This often includes adding political and controversial topics on subjects like history.
	Secondly, which subjects should be taught to students in a country has a major influence on the overall education system of a country. If the politicians are to decide this utmost important issue rather than the subject matter experts, which would be a disaster for the country. No one would accept that some teachers are picked up to decide a change in the election rule and amendment of the necessary constitution of a country. So why do the reverse?
	Finally, the political persons are experts in their own field. They should not be picked up to decide the subjects that should be taught in schools only because they held some important government positions. If necessary, experts from other countries who have similar experience could be hired to get their opinion on this issue.
	In conclusion, I totally agree that teachers and people who have experience in teaching and syllabus formation should be included in the committee to decide what subjects should be taught in schools. Relying on the politicians is the worst idea in my opinion.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/633-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-214-children-would-benefit-if-they-attend-nursery-school-before-primary-school",
Essay 1470:
	Many parents send their 5-or 6 years old children to a primary school directly while a lot of other parents send their children to a nursery school first before sending them to primary schools. Both of these trends have their own benefits and demerits. Parents usually send their kids to nursery schools at a very early age and some people oppose this idea because they feel that those kids should be at home with other family members.
	First of all, sending children to nursery schools at a very early age gives them the advantages of being around other kids, teachers and in a nice educational environment that motivates them to socially interact and study. This is important in terms of making a proper habit of study and building up punctuation. Those kids spend 4-5 hours at nursery school and can easily spend the remaining time with the family members. The modern educational system is very competitive and getting involved in the education and formal institution in an early age is a better option for a majority of the children. Secondly, many children do not have siblings or other kids at their age and they feel lonely at home. Being in nursery school gives them the opportunity to be around with other kids, to play, to study to make fun and do other activities that would be advantageous for their mental health.
	On the other hand, sending kids to schools when they are merely 3-4 years old is a bad idea according to many parents. They feel that children should learn the basic things like reading, enumeration etc. from home and only then attend the primary school when they grow to 5-6 years old. This is particularly helpful because parents take care of those things more carefully than others. It is often observed that many students show negative mentality as they were sent to school at a very early age. Moreover, staying at home until a certain age gives both the parents and the children to establish a strong bonding between them. This might be hampered if the child is sent to the nursery school. Again, parents are considered to be the best teachers and the children at the early age have a lot to learn from their parents. The trend of sending kids to school at a very early age often brings more negative aspects than positive aspects.
	In conclusion, both views have their merits and demerits and the decision of sending kids to the nursery school should be made based on the convenience of the parents and kids, the educational facility at home and at the nursery school and finally based on the psychological condition of the child. The children should be given every opportunity to grow up healthy, mentally strong and well educated no matter what arrangement suits them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/632-reading-for-pleasure-develops-imaginations-and-better-language-skills",
Essay 1471:
	It has always been a great debate whether the pleasure reading or the watching TV improves the creativity, positive imagination power and language skill for an individual. Some people think that reading is better for enhancing positive thinking while other groups say that watching TV is more beneficial. I completely agree that the thinking capability and language skill of a person are better developed by reading than watching television.
	First of all, reading for pleasure grasps the attention of a person more than the TV can. Most of the people who read a lot have a better thinking capability and thus become innovative and more creative. While people do not pay utmost attention while watching TV as they often change the channels to find something more interesting.
	Television improves the listening and speaking skills. Reading and the analytical ability of an individual are developed more quickly by reading books. It is obvious that reading books, magazines, journals or even websites give much opportunity to learn something more accurately than watching television. In the case of pleasure reading, the reader always has the option to read whatever interests him/ her most. On the other hand, television programmes are broadcasted according to the people who maintain that. Television programs are much more commercial and always try to produce programs keeping the commercial aspects in mind. Good books are always the better alternative in learning new things, developing skills and imagination.
	Again, the reading and writing skill of a person cannot be greatly developed unless this person is a professional writer or reads a lot. Only watching television is not a good choice who wants to develop their language skills.
	Finally, good books and other reading materials come with the thoughtfulness of writers and with the historical facts and events which are much more thought-provoking than the TV programmes. People often tend to watch entertaining programs like movies than watching a historical program on the History channel. On the other hand, when people read books or other materials, they read only things that can keep their attention. A book, thus, is a better option for everyone to learn more, develop imagination and improve language skills, especially in reading and writing areas.
Essay 1472:
	Some people believe that reading is better than watching television since it improves people's creativity and imagination, and their literature skill as well. To a certain extent, I would agree with the statement, but I do believe that watching television at the proportionate time could also bring positive values to our mind and language as well.
	On the one hand, it is true that reading brings a lot of benefits for mankind. Despite that people read books or articles for pleasure or study, it is a fact that reading will enhance people's literacy and develop their imaginative thinking. As there is no visual display in reading, it means that people have to imagine by themselves about the event that is informed in the article or book, and definitely, it will improve people's creativity. Besides that, by doing a lot of reading, people will get used to seeing proper grammar, formal languages and new collocations, therefore it will gradually improve the reader's language capabilities.  
	On the other hand, watching television at the right portion and only watching appropriate programs also bring benefits for people. Some television programs trigger their viewer's imaginative thinking, such as National Geographic or Discovery Channel. And then there are other programs such as BBC News or CNN which could also affect people's way of communication. Therefore, watching television could also bring positive effects to their watchers.
	In conclusion, it is said that the reading has more positive effects on human creative thinking and language skills. To a certain point, I would agree with it, but I personally think that watching television has some positive things as well. It could improve our imaginative thinking, communication skills and enhance our knowledge, but we must select the appropriate programs and watch them proportionately.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/631-individuals-can-t-do-something-to-improve-environment-but-governments-and-large-companies-can",
Essay 1473:
	First of all, the government cannot work in every place to improve the environment. All they can do is impose some rules and enforce those rules so that everyone abides by these rules and do not harm the environment.
	In reality, the government can take many steps to protect the environment and can take initiatives to improve the environment. This is applicable for large companies as well and these large companies can invest a large amount of money to do so. But ultimately the mass people play the most vital role to decrease the pollution and improve the places they live. The government can shut down many faulty vehicles and factories, can invest for plantation beside the roads and can engage many workers to make the street cleans. But ultimately the mass people’s mentality and activity would make the difference. If each individual plant a single tree in their living place, that would be much more significant than the steps taken by the government and large companies.
	The awareness of the mass people, their spontaneous and active participation and contribution can improve the environment and the government and large companies can take some steps to inspire them even more.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/437-knowledge-gained-from-experience-or-the-knowledge-gained-from-books",
Essay 1474:
	Throughout the human life, people will always be in special circumstances. They should make an important decision like choosing their life partners or a convenient major for their future. Today the books are proper resources of knowledge, which can play a significant role to inform people in almost all fields. However, in my opinion, books cannot be useful for personal stuff as well as personal experience, because of some reasons, which are elucidated below.
	First of all, although books are a suitable resource and let us know about others' experiences, it cannot be helpful in personal problems. As it has known to everybody, the attitude of one person is totally different from another one. For example, two people in the same situation make two dissimilar decisions. As a result, the experiences which are gathered from books cannot be constructive for people to cope with their troubles.
	Furthermore, personal experiences are more deeply and penetrate into our subconscious, since we were in the situation and we felt all of the things that happened to us. It is more influential than just reading them in the books. Recently, researchers have depicted that human always learn everything better when they observe them with their eyes or touch them. For instance, the students who had been taught in a laboratory got better marks in their exam than those who had taught verbally.
	In conclusion, I personally think, the influences of books are superficial. When we go through the problems which we read exactly the same one on the book before, we usually perform our instructions rather than doing what authors said. On the contrary, personal experiences have a profound impact on our decisions which we will make in the future.
Essay 1475:
	"Experience is the best teacher" is an old cliché , and I agree with it since experiences enrich a person’s wisdom and teach him/her invaluable lessons that can never be learned from elsewhere . We can learn a lot of important things from books, and books tell us about the past, present and future, but the most important lessons in life come from our own experiences. Throughout the different stages of life, from primary school to university to adulthood, experience teaches us many skills we need for life.
	As children in primary school, we learn facts and information from books, but that is not all we learn in school. On the playground, we learn how to make friends. In our class work, we learn how it feels to succeed and what we do when we fail. We start to learn about the things we like to do and the things we don't. We don't learn these things from books, but from our experiences with our friends and classmates.
	In our university classes, we learn a lot of information and skills we will need for our future careers, but we also learn a lot that is not in our textbooks. In our daily lives both in the class and out of the class, we learn to make decisions for ourselves. We learn to take on responsibilities. We learn to get along with our classmates, our roommates, and our workmates. Our successes and failures help us develop skills we will need in our adult lives. They are skills that no book can teach us. Throughout our adulthood, the experience remains a constant teacher. We may continue to read or take classes for professional development. However, our experiences at work, at home, and with our friends teach us more. The triumphs and disasters of our lives teach us how to improve our careers and also how to improve our relationships and how to be the person each one of us wants to be.
	Books teach us a lot, but there is a limit to what they teach. They can give us information or show us another person's experiences. These are valuable things, but the lessons we learn from our own experiences, from childhood through adulthood, are the most important ones we learn.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/436-subjects-taught-in-schools-are-too-academic",
Essay 1476:
	My first reason is that it is the duty of parents, not teachers, to prepare their children to deal with the practical affairs of life. The home, not the classroom, is the ideal place to learn about home management and interpersonal skills. As for work abilities and attitudes, they are best learned “on the job” and under the supervision of an experienced older worker.
	My second reason is that academic subjects have withstood the test of time. They represent the accumulated wisdom of our ancestors down through the ages, and, far from being impractical, they equip us with the knowledge and confidence to make a sound judgment about any problems which may crop up. In addition, academic subjects are good for training us in mental discipline, while practical subjects are weak in this regard.
	My third reason is based on the saying “Man does not live by bread alone.” Schooldays devoted solely to instruction in down-to-earth practical matters would be dull indeed! Lessons in the best literature of the world, and the epoch-making scientific and geographical discoveries of the past enrich our lives and make us feel that we are part of the great family of mankind.
	All in all, the teaching of academic subjects in schools is entirely appropriate. It is my firmly held view that practical subjects have no place in the classroom. On the contrary, the curriculum should be more academic.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/435-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-209-until-what-age-do-you-think-people-should-be-encouraged-to-remain-in-paid-employment",
Essay 1477:
	Mandatory retirement age varies from society to society, perhaps a reflection of economics, population pressures or simply value systems. Indeed, retirement at 50 can probably be as easily justified as that at 70. It is my belief, however, that the longer an able person is allowed to work, the better for both the individual worker and the employer.
	Chronological age is not always a true indicator of ability. While some 65-year-olds may not perform as well as they did in their past, many workers at this age do just as well or better than they used to. People's suitability for a position should be a reflection of their performance in the job, rather than the number of wrinkles or grey hairs they have. Employers concerned about the increasing age of their employees need only observe their work records. Those doing poorly may be asked to retire, but those as yet unaffected by age should stay on. Indeed, it would appear economical for an organisation to retain its older employees when possible rather than spend time and money on training new workers.
	Remaining in one's job for as long as one is able makes sense as life expectancies increase around the world. As people live longer, they are longer able to contribute to society in the form of meaningful work. But they are also in need of income for a longer period, so a mandatory retirement age of 55 for someone who is statistically likely to live to 77 becomes increasingly difficult to justify. At a time when populations are ageing, governments are less able to provide for their senior citizens, so by keeping able workers in paid employment for as long as is practicable, public expenditures are less strained.
	Thus, workers who can still demonstrate their capacity to carry out their work should not be asked to retire simply because they have reached a certain age. Societies that insist on early retirement may do well to look again at their policies.
Essay 1478:
	Since the inception of human civilisation, the debate over the retirement age is widespread. Although people usually continue working after retirement, in most countries retirement is regulated. Some countries, with huge youth workforce, allow their citizens to retire early as 50. Similarly, countries that struggle with lack of workforce allow people to work more than 60 as 65 or 70 too.  However, there are few occupations which demand exceptions over age limits. For example: in politics, people work with no age limit as this occupation is paramount and requires significantly long and skilled experience and in the military, servicemen are allowed to actively serve till 45 years only as the job  necessitates impeccable physical fitness and dynamic adaptability.
	Firstly, countries with huge youth workforce have enacted rules to force an average worker to end their careers early at an age of 50.  Eminently, this decision is influenced by the requirement to engage maximum workforce to employment. Moreover, youth bring extra energy and new innovative ideas to turn jobs more productive and less costly. However, even in these countries, we find retired people working as freelancers after retirement as early retirement for most is not a rewarding experience, and in most cases, early retirement does not suffice all monetary requirements. For example: officially, China, a country with the largest youth and overall population, doesn't allow its citizens to work after 50.
	Secondly, some countries like Poland, Iceland etc. allow their citizens to work till 70 as these countries are enduring with low workforce and high ageing people, who hold a major share of the population.  Obviously, this has some repercussions over the productivity. But, many people support this idea as this allows them to muster enough money and resources to spend happy and independent life afterwards. For example, Austria,  a country with the highest share of senior citizens, allow people to work till 70, and in order to tackle the issue, the country has announced a skilled migration scheme to attract skilled workers from other countries.
	In conclusion, I believe that a retirement age should be selected after intensive research into a country's job market, population ratio and other factors impacting society. Also, certain occupations must be vetted differently as they required some specific skills. For example, politicians mustn't be barred after any age, and similarly, servicemen must get retired after 50.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/434-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-208-international-sporting-occasions-are-essential-in-easing-international-tensions",
Essay 1479:
	Every four years, the whole world stops to watch international sporting events such as the Olympics and the Football World Cup in which athletes show their best performance to make their country proud of them. These sporting occasions have proved to be helpful in easing international tensions in difficult times when powerful leaders were trying to control the world's economy and other governments were fighting over land.
	The Olympic Games are one of the best examples which prove how sporting events can bring nations together, at least temporarily. From ancient History, when Greeks and Romans would interrupt battles to participate in the games, to the more recent international disputes, when athletes from Palestine and Israel would forget their differences, compete pacifically and even embrace each other after an event. Moreover, these popular events have called the world's attention to the terrible consequences of wars; thus some leaders have tried to accept agreements to end their dispute and live peacefully. Again when Pakistan and India play cricket against each other, it, at least, temporarily helps the citizen of both countries forget about the war among these two countries. When Pakistani famous cricketers do stage programs with Indian popular crickets, then only friendship and peace can be felt, not the war and political conflicts.  
	Similarly, international sporting events show benefits in some developing countries which live in a daily internal civil war. For example, Brazil has a high rate of unemployment, lack of education, hunger, crime, poverty and corruption which leads to an immense embarrassment of being Brazilian and a low self-esteem. However, when the Football World Cup starts, the Brazilian squad, which is considered the best team in the world, provokes an amazing feeling of pride in their country. Most people seem to forget all their problems and even the criminal activity decreases. They paint roads with the national colours, use wear the Brazilian team shirt and buy national flags. Moreover, the competition brings families and neighbours together and even rival gangs watch the games and celebrate peacefully.
	In conclusion, popular sporting events play an important role in decreasing international tensions and liberating patriotic feelings as History has shown.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/433-going-overseas-for-university-study-or-stay-home-and-study",
Essay 1480:
	There is no doubt that going to study in a foreign country, with its different language and culture, can be a frustrating and sometimes painful experience. But while the overseas study has its drawbacks, the difficulties are far outweighed by the advantages. Indeed, people who go abroad for study open themselves up to experiences that those who stay at home will never have.
	The most obvious advantage to overseas university study is the real-life use of a different language. While a person can study a foreign language in his or her own country, it cannot compare with the constant use of the language in academic and everyday life. There is no better opportunity to improve second-language skills than living in the country in which it is spoken. Moreover, having used the language during one's studies offers a distinct advantage when one is applying for jobs back home that require the language.
	On a university campus, the foreign student is not alone in having come from far away. He or she will likely encounter many others from overseas and it is possible to make friends from all around the world. This is not only exciting on a social level but could lead to important overseas contacts in later professional life. Finally, living and studying abroad offers one a new and different perspective of the world and, perhaps most important, of one's own country. Once beyond the initial shock of being in a new culture, the student slowly begins to get a meaningful understanding of the host society. On returning home, one inevitably sees one's own country in a new, often more appreciative, light.
	In conclusion, while any anxiety about going overseas for university study is certainly understandable, it is important to remember that the benefits offered by the experience make it well worthwhile.
Essay 1481:
	There is no doubt that studying in a foreign country has many drawbacks and yet the advantages outweigh these problems and offer exciting opportunities to the students. People who stay at home country will never get a different experience and obviously, they are less likely to stay behind the times and advancement.
	Firstly, the main reasons why students prefer foreign countries for study would be: they always seek some changes regards to their education. If it is foreign countries, they can learn different languages and cultures while it is impossible if they constantly stay at one place. This aspect helps them to gain experience as well as knowledge. For instance, in many overseas countries, once students complete their degree or course, those countries offer a wide variety of opportunities to get into a prestigious company.
	Furthermore, independent lifestyle is a big and significant part in one person's life. People in abroad are highly benefited. Many people in other countries want to run their life on their own. They aspire for independent life and eventually this would develop their self-esteem and confidence level. In addition to this, people can have a new type of relationships like they can make new friends there and consequently they would be well developed in the language skills. Sometimes people might be suffering from many difficulties but they could develop their ability to tackle the problems. This made them adapt to any kind of environment. They seem to be sociable to everyone. Particularly, these kinds of new experiences teach them to look after themselves in all aspects.
	Some other advantages of studying in a foreign country include exposure to diverse cultures and customs, better ability to handle international clients in career life, the opportunity to learn more in a better university, the opportunity to work in a worldwide reputed company etc.  Often the home companies prefer people with foreign degrees and this in terms of career is a better option for a student who studied in a foreign country. Enhancing confidence and becoming self-dependent is something that abroad studying students automatically gain and this helps to pursuit a better personal and professional life in future. Since this process involves travelling to other country and new places, it is helpful to gain practical experiences as well. However, there are benefits in overseas education, even though some people hold the opinion that it is better to stay at home because in some countries the living and education expenses are too high. Another reason is the personal activities and self-reliance like washing, cleaning should be taken by oneself. It develops their frustration level and also causes stress and strains.
	In conclusion, I personally believe that the people can get a preferable choice of study in overseas and also it is vital for one begin connection with new people. Certainly, this had a positive impact on students’ career and future life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/432-some-people-think-that-space-research-is-a-waste-of-money",
Essay 1482:
	Space research is promised to unfold the ultimate truth about the existence of the universe and the human race as a part of it. However, the outcome so far includes some rocks collected as samples, a possibility for the future colony for us and some promises to learn about other species, all of which have little to offer to uplift the human civilisation. The colossal amount of money the outer space exploration requires could surely be used to address more pressing issues at hand.
	To begin with, more than half of the world population live under the poverty line while an overwhelming amount of resource is drained to send a single spaceship to a  distant planet. Thus many people deeply regret the money wasted on finding a suitable planet for our future generation or to bring back some alien rocks as samples. Definitely, the first time a human landed on the moon is considered a giant leapt for the human race but from a practical point of view, it has helped us very little and sarcastically, rich countries have mostly abandoned their mission to the moon.
	Moreover, what good the knowledge of outer space would bring to a poor mother whose child starves and suffers from malnutrition? The fund should be spent on ensuring a decent world first. If we have so many problems on mother earth, why should we go beyond it to find solace? We need to first make a world without darkness, illiteracy, corruption, fight and hunger and then concentrate on finding some intelligent creatures on another planet.
	To conclude, a hungry belly cannot appreciate the delicacies of a fine art and thus a starving planet should not spend money on reaching other planets when those voyages only make promises rather than bringing anything helpful.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/431-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-205-attempts-must-be-made-to-encourage-people-to-use-their-cars-less",
Essay 1483:
	Anyone who lives in a city is aware of the increasing number of cars on the road and the kinds of problems this creates are traffic jams, air pollution and longer commuting periods. As economies grow and access to cars spreads to increasing numbers of people, this trend is likely to worsen. The solution, it would seem, is for the government to encourage the use of public transport in urban areas, thus decreasing dependence on the car.
	One way to stimulate public transport use is to make private car use more expensive and inconvenient. The introduction of tolls along urban motorways has been successfully employed in many cities. Other such measures are high-priced permits for parking in urban areas and the restriction of parking to a limited number of cars. Faced with high costs or no place to park, commuters would perhaps be more willing to abandon their cars in favour of buses or trains.
	There are also less punishing ways of spurring public transport use. The construction of free car-parks at suburban train stations has proven successful in quite a number of countries. This allows commuters to drive part of the way but then they ultimately use public transportation into the central, most congested, urban areas.
	Moreover, private cars can not carry many passengers at a time yet occupy spaces in the street. As the number of cars is increasing in the road so does the traffic jam. Perhaps the major disadvantage of cars, in general, is the huge damage they do to the human health and to the environment. More cars mean more pollution. The environment pollution is a serious issue today and at any cost, we must reduce the amount of pollution.
	Indeed, making public transport more comfortable and convenient should work to attract more commuters and decrease traffic congestion. Public transport that is convenient and comfortable retains its passengers, much like any business that satisfies its customers. The more commuters committed to taking public transport, the less congestion on city streets.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/430-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-204-how-do-you-think-society-will-be-affected-by-the-growth-of-telecommuting",
Essay 1484:
	Nowadays, thanks to modernization, the way of communication between people has thoroughly become different than before. Using of electronic systems, humans are able to connect with each other, at their workplace or home. I personally believe that this technology has created more job opportunities for individuals, have reduced traffic load, and they have become more socially active.
	Obviously, advancements in telecommunication have enhanced the capacity of the workforce in many countries. Some new graduates, who do not have sufficient financial backup, are able to work from their home. For example, my cousin, who is a fresh e-commerce developer graduate, has recently selected his home as his office, saving just over $1500 paid for rent and bills each month. Many other fresh engineers can use this novel method to do their business.
	Another positive impact of this technology is that it has tremendously subsided traffic congestion in cities. Clearly, the less number of people commute between their home and office, the less severe traffic problem they will face in urban areas. To communicate with their partners, they can use their personal computer from their home, while before they had to spend almost one hour to reach their work. In this case, reported by the transport authorities of Tehran, the load vehicles in central area could be declined to almost half if telecommunication has been expanded by giant corporations, according to a report of a local economy magazine.
	Lastly, this method has caused people to become more socially active. Definitely, had not this technology been so popular, nation’s cultures would have become less recognisable to other nations. They can use a variety of visual and audio features of the Internet and communicate with each other. For instance, Facebook, the leading contemporary social network, has led humans from different nationalities to have a closer relationship. They can send messages, chat, send or receive files or post video clips or pictures on their timeline, making the web a better place for communication.
	In conclusion, progress in the cyberspace has created a better opportunity for humans to have a better living condition. From my perspective, this technology has increased job positions for the job seekers, commuting less between their home and workplace, and intercultural understanding has become more possible, far greater than the past.
Essay 1485:
	The spread of telecommuting is sure to have far-reaching effects on society. By itself, telecommuting refers to office workers spending much of their time working from home and using electronic technologies to communicate with their employers. The broader implications of telecommuting, however, may involve changes to corporate structure, workers' lifestyles and even urban planning.
	The most obvious changes may be apparent in the `normal' offices of companies, governments and other organisations. If even half the working week is spent telecommuting from home, then we would initially expect many empty desks in the office. As offices grow smaller, workers coming in for the day would be expected to share desks with their absent colleagues. This, in turn, may affect the social atmosphere of an organisation, however, as less social contact with one's colleagues could harm morale and loyalty.
	For the individual office worker, telecommuting would mean spending more time at home. For a parent with young children, this may be a blessing. Moreover, many telecommuters would be able to work the hours they wished: having a nap in the afternoon, for example, but working some hours in the evening. One substantial benefit for all telecommuting workers is that there will be no need to travel to work, allowing more free time.
	The structure of urban life is also likely to be affected by telecommuting. We would expect to see fewer cars on the road during peak hours and, eventually, a smaller concentration of offices in cities' central business districts. In short, people will have less reason to travel to city centres from outlying areas. As more people work and live in the same location, shops and cultural events will likely relocate themselves out of the city centre.
	In conclusion, telecommuting will serve not only to change the way we work but also the way we live.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/429-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-203-children-below-the-age-of-sixteen-should-not-be-allowed-in-public-places",
Essay 1486:
	Many parents do not allow their teenage children to be in public places at night and accompany them if they need to go to any public place at night. In my opinion, this is a valid way of ensuring the safety of such adolescents.
	Firstly, the boys and girls who are less than 16 years old do not need to be outside, especially at public places at midnight. They should be at home with their parents and within the secured premises. Public places at midnight in many cases are not secured and being there without a proper guardian is not safe at all for such young kids. In urban area people mostly stay at home in the midnight and do not go outside if this is urgent. The police patrols and other security authorities find it suspicious if they find someone at night. So being at public places at midnight is not a good idea.
	Secondly, the rogue people and criminals find it suitable to operate at night. There is a change that a young boy or girl might become a victim of such crime and that’s why they should not be allowed to be outside at night.
	In a metropolitan city, many people remain outside till the late night but still this is not safe for young children. It is a custom that children would be outside in broad daylight while they should be in safe-zone, home, at night.
	In conclusion, in most of the parts of the world children less than 16 years old remain at home at midnight and this is necessary for their safety. If they really need to go outside at midnight, proper guardian or parents should always accompany them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/428-families-are-now-not-as-close-as-they-used-to-be",
Essay 1487:
	There is much discussion nowadays as to whether or not the relationship between family members is as close as before. Diverse contributing factors can be identified. In the following, I would like to present my point of view.
	Great changes have taken place in family life along with the development of society. One of them is that the once-extended family tends to become smaller and smaller. Many children have to leave their parents at an early age to study or work elsewhere. As time passes, children become emotionally estranged from their parents.
	Compared with the past, social competition is becoming increasingly fierce. People are urged to concentrate their efforts on their works so that they can achieve success or at least a good standard of living. As a result, they can’t afford to spend their leisure hours with their families. The importance of bonds of kinship is gradually fading from their minds.
	In addition, the availability of various kinds of recreational facilities also diverts people from enjoying chats with the members of their families. Their free time is mostly occupied by watching TV, surfing the Internet or playing video games. They come to lose interest in communicating with the other members of their families. In view of such alienation within families, urgent steps must be taken, in my opinion. For members of families who live away from one another, regular contact on the phone can bring them the care that they need. Family reunions on holidays or other important occasions can make a difference as well. For those living together, it is a good idea to take some time off work or recreation periods to spend more time with each other.
	In the final analysis, a close family relationship can surely be maintained as long as we realise the significant role it plays in our lives and we attach importance to it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/427-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-201-people-are-being-subjected-to-more-and-more-pressure-in-their-work",
Essay 1488:
	In modern society, especially in big cities, undoubtedly hard work has become a very important feature of ordinary people’s everyday life. It seems that many people are under the impression that their work is becoming more pressing and urgent, and thus they sacrifice more and more leisure time.
	In the first place, with the rapid development of science and technology, work today is more demanding than it used to be. For example, college graduates nowadays have to master English, computer science and driving skills before they can find decent jobs. People have to spend more time acquiring new techniques and skills. And their spare time tends to be fully occupied, not with leisure pursuit, but with work-related pursuits.
	In the second place, competition is becoming more intense. Many people feel anxious that they may be “laid-off” if they can’t work as hard as others. And they also feel at a disadvantage before new graduates. Therefore, it is understandable that people keep themselves involved in intensely hard work in order to preserve their positions.
	In my opinion, the worst aspect of this phenomenon is that the huge pressure of work will gradually affect people’s mental health. Excessively hard work means that people can never get rid of the fatigue of their work, even in their leisure time. This means that they can not enjoy a normal life. In a word, in modern society overwork is stealing our leisure time. however, I believe this problem will be settled eventually with the development of science and technology.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/426-some-people-think-that-they-can-learn-better-by-themselves-than-with-a-teacher",
Essay 1489:
	Learning is an ongoing activity which starts from our birth and continues till death. Some people argue that learning by own experiences is more efficient and long lasting. However, others state that teachers are the best mentor and their knowledge, experiences, observations and techniques will enable us to learn quickly and effectively. I strongly believe that teachers are the best source of knowledge and their role and efforts are always applaudable and acknowledgeable.
	There is no doubt that teachers are the trained professionals, who are equipped with latest and modern teaching techniques. They know the art of being delivering difficult concepts in friendly and relaxing ways. As all the students do not have equal intelligence level. Here, teachers play a vital role as they understand the capacity of each student.
	Teachers have sheer knowledge because of their vast experience and observations. They can also provide real-time knowledge of the things to their students. Furthermore, teachers can provide quick solutions to various problems of students. By this, I mean that student would have effective learning in minimal time span.
	However, learning by doing is an approach, which has long lasting and undeniable benefits. In facts, this is a time-consuming process as you have to do research and implement by your own but its advantages cannot be ignored.
	In conclusion, I would like to say that teachers' role is mandatory in learning. There is no alternative to their knowledge and experiences. Under their guidance and supervision, one can learn and perform exceptionally well.
Essay 1490:
	People are learning through their entire life. Our first teachers in most cases are our parents. They teach us to walk, speak, behave ourselves, etc. They with great patience pass down their knowledge and experience to their children. There is no doubt that we need our parents to learn essential things. Parents giving their knowledge prepare children to join the "real world". So, at this point, we need teachers to learn some basic things.
	When children go to a school or college they have there many teachers who help them study more difficult and complicated things. Personally, I think that young people need teachers because in most cases they basically do not understand yet the importance of learning some "uninteresting things" such as logic, literature, grammatical, etc. So, teachers keep children on track and sometimes make them learn. I think, at adolescence and young need teachers because they help them develop and improve themselves in order to succeed in life.
	However, I believe that when a person is no longer a child and he has a job and lives an independent life he can choose how he is going to study. As for me, my choice between studying by myself or with somebody's help depends on a teacher. If a teacher has very interesting lectures and gives many examples from different resources I will attend his or her classes with great pleasure. However, if a teacher has dry and boring lectures and does not try to make them interesting I will get some books and study this subject by myself. It saves me time and probably some money if I take books in a library.
	So, basically, some teachers can give their students so much in a short period of time that it is worth to spend one's time attending lectures. At the same time, from my point of view, other teachers can not give me the knowledge I need at my pace.
Essay 1491:
	Learning is a process that requires a strategic approach to gain the knowledge completely. Various proven approaches exist to learn different knowledge and skills. Traditionally, the teaching is done by an experienced teacher who is believed to have mastered the skill he teaches. However, some people believe that self-learning is a better approach and thus learn from books without the help of a tutor. However, it is preferred to have a teacher whenever possible. This can be proven by analysing how teachers follow a systematic approach, correct our mistakes, and provide valuable feedback to lead us to achieve success in learning.
	Mistakes are common in the learning process. A teacher can help the students by correcting their mistakes and also providing feedback whenever required. On the other hand, a self-learner may not know if he or she is making a mistake in the learning process and may end up learning it wrongly. For instance, a child learning mathematics without a teacher may end up using a wrong arithmetic formula as there is nobody to guide. This shows that a teacher's help in correction and suggestion is important to a successful learning process.
	In conclusion, it is apparent that a teacher can help students in learning by following a systematic learning style, and amend pupil's mistakes, and provide suggestions and feedback whenever required. Thus, it is a preferred way to learn with tutors.
Essay 1492:
	Learning is a life-long process and knowledge makes us the supreme being. A popular stratum of the society tends to opine that people can learn effectively on their own rather than learning from teachers, while others oppose this view. They reckon teachers are helpful for learning. I will discuss both views before forming my opinion.
	On the one hand, people in favour of self-learning think that when people learn by themselves, it becomes more appealing and hence the brain catches it more efficiently. Moreover, learning from someone's own experience by facing challenges is the best way to learn. Moving further, when a person tries to learn something new on his own, he does not feel any pressure unlike in a scheduled routine with lecturers. Finally, academicians often have limited knowledge and share biased views and personal opinions with students. This could mislead people to learn in a bad way. Great people like Michael Faraday and Thomas Edison were self-educated and they have changed the world.   
	On the other hand, those who opine that instructors are more important in learning believe that teachers have the ability to inculcate proper knowledge because they have professional experience and subject-specific expertise. They not only teach, they motivate pupils and explain complex issues in a simpler method. What is more, without instructors, pupils cannot gain practical skills. For instance, in chemistry and physics, it is stiff for all students to observe data of a process and teachers are must in learning such subjects. I personally believe that teachers have great roles in educating us and we cannot become tutored on our own. No doubt self-learning is helpful at a certain level in life, but the function teachers perform in our academic life is unreplaceable.
	To conclude, our teachers not only teach us academic lessons but also inspire us, help us gain practical skill and this is why having teachers in our learning process in a must.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/425-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-199-some-people-learn-by-doing-things-other-people-learn-by-reading-about-things",
Essay 1493:
	People learn through their entire lives. Some people prefer to read many books and gain knowledge from them. Others prefer to learn from their own experience. Also, there are people who prefer to learn from others by listening to their advice and analysing their mistakes. For several reasons, which I will mention below, I think that each of these ways to learn new things has many advantages. Personally, I think that the combination of these ways is the best way to learn and gain more knowledge and experience.
	Undoubtedly, learning by doing things is the best way to learn. First of all, one can gain his own experience, which is priceless and valuable. Moreover, some things are impossible to learn without practising. For example, when children learn how to read they can not perfect in it without everyday practice. Or when a student learn how to type on a computer. He can not just listen to someone or read books about it and then type very quickly. Many things in our life require practice and own experience. Personally, I think that mostly I learn how to do things by doing them not by reading about them.
	However, there are some things that are impossible to be learned by doing them. For example, students learn many things from the books and other different resources like Internet, magazines, newspapers and even through conversations. Take for example our history or space exploration. People learn about them from books and TV programs. We can not get back in time and experience different historical events except that we do it in our imagination.
	In conclusion, I think that the combination of these ways will give the best results. However, there is no doubt that personal experience is priceless and irreplaceable because it gives the great opportunity to analyse one's mistakes, make conclusions and avoid them next time. So, in my case, I try to learn things by doing them if it is possible and if it is not then I use other ways to learn them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/424-in-general-people-are-living-longer-now",
Essay 1494:
	It is believed that the average life expectancy of people is longer these days, compared to the past. There are various reasons that have caused the situation and the following essay will discuss them in details.
	Firstly, there are various types of medicines that have been found by medical scientists nowadays which have saved many lives. These medicines have been proven that they could cure serious diseases which have killed millions of people in the past. For instances, with the invention of penicillin in the 20th century, it was proven that it could heal the infected wound. Consequently, the mortality rate due to infection had decreased significantly in the last century.
	Secondly, people are living longer due to they are better educated nowadays. Many governments have realised the need of higher education for their people; therefore they provided free education until secondary school. With this positive development, the number of illiterate people has declined, and many of them have read and understood the standard of healthy living. For example, many women now understand the process of delivering a baby, whereas they should have a routine visit to their doctors and understand the types of food that they should consume. As a result, the mortality rate of women has been declining drastically in the past few decades.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that people are living longer these days. There are many factors that affect to the phenomenon, but in my personal opinion, the top two main factors are advance medical research and better education.
Essay 1495:
	Statistics show that people are living longer now than they used to in previous centuries. There are several reasons for this and the improvement in treatment and in medical science in the main reason for that longer life expectancy. I will point out a few of them below.
	First of all, a few hundred years ago mankind suffered from many different kinds of diseases which are very well cured now. The achievements of contemporary medicine allow people to live with artificial arms, hands, legs and even hearts. Recently I read a few articles in the magazines about a man with an implanted artificial heart and a woman who had an implanted chipset in her head to make her happier. Additionally, many viruses are defeated nowadays with the modern vaccines and many pills help us to relieve pain.
	Second of all, the conditions of lives are greatly improved. A man chiefly does not have to sleep on the wet and cold ground, defense himself from predators in the wild forests and fight for his life. The wide extension of fast food stands, buffets and restaurants give people the opportunity to have full and nutritious meals whenever they need to. Many entertaining centres offer a wide variety of services where you can leave your troubles behind and just relax.
	Again, the technological advancement like the Internet has made the information available to many people. People no longer need to consult a doctor to know about a disease and cure. People can surf the internet themselves and can get some medical advice they require to get fit.  But the longer life span does not come automatically unless people start living a healthy life. The modern world gives the opportunity to live a healthy life if someone wants to have one. 
	All of these things mentioned above allow people to maintain a healthy lifestyle, spend more time with his family and friends and make their life longer and happier.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/423-human-needs-for-farmland-housing-and-industry-are-more-important-than-saving-land",
Essay 1496:
	As human population is significantly increasing every year, people's requirements are increasing too. We need more food, more machines, more place to live and so on. As a result, people need more land areas to satisfy their requirements. We cultivate and irrigate more and more lands to plant vegetables, build new buildings, airports, roads, etc. I think sometimes we forget that we are not alone on this planet. I have to disagree with those people who think that human needs are more important than saving land for endangered animals. I base my opinion on the following points.
	First of all, as I have already mentioned, we are not alone on this planet. A few centuries ago we were the part of wild nature. I think we need to remember this fact and respect all creatures around us. The green planet has thousands of species and all of them have equal share to live here freely. If we use all the lands for us, it will be impossible for other species to survive. As humans, we have a responsibility to let other species live in a natural environment. 
	Second of all, I believe that we all need to think of the problem of overpopulation. The human population is dramatically increasing and we have to do something about it. From my opinion, every family should have no more than two children. It will help to stop the growth of population, decrease human needs for farmland, housing and industry.
	In conclusion, I think it is a very topical question nowadays that whether we, humans, have the supreme possession of everything on earth. My point is that all people should answer this question and find the solution. But as far as I am concerned, other species have as much right as we have to be here.
Essay 1497:
	Humans and animals have shared a very special relationship since the dawn of time. Humans have used animals for sustenance, for work and also for companionship. In the recent times, there has been a growing concern for the endangered species, with increasing number of birds and animals becoming extinct. I disagree with the point that the habitat for endangered species should be allowed to be used for housing and industries, thus giving more importance to human needs.
	To support my opinion, firstly, the humans should be considerate and humane towards the Mother Nature and the living beings on earth. Consider the example of parrots, at present, parrots can be seen only in the animated movies or in the zoos. If the right steps would have been taken at the appropriate time, we could have saved more parrots. By being considerate for the animals we are making sure that the food chain of animals does not get disturbed and thus does not disturb the cycle of nature.
	To give the problem a different perspective, the problem of land for more housing and industries should be solved with more constructive ways. Cities can be designed and planned with modern technology to use optimum land thus saving the land for the needful endangered species. To give an example, Singapore has a well-laid infrastructure which uses latest technologies to promote bio-diversity. The government has created national parks for the endangered species. Thus, both humans and animals thrive in harmony with constructive methods used to build modern cities.
	To conclude, although the demand for land is growing every day for more human needs, there are constructive ways by which the supply can be produced, without endangering more animals and risking their extinction. It is also recommended to study and observe the modern city models like Singapore and South Korea to promote constructive ideas instead of destructive methods.
Essay 1498:
	Ever increasing demands of mankind have strained the existing resources our mother nature has. For this elevated demands for farmland, housing & industry using the land traditionally reserved for forests is an easy, logical and cheap option for many. However, in my opinion encroaching the jungles will be more expensive and can be fatal if not stopped. We will see the ecological & economical impacts it is having on humanity in this essay.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/422-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-196-some-people-prefer-to-work-for-themselves-or-own-a-business",
Essay 1499:
	Basically, people work for money and self-realization. However, some people prefer to be self-employed and others prefer to work for an employer. These two options are very different ones and I did not make my choice yet. I think that each of them has its own advantages and disadvantages.
	Working as an employee brings many benefits. First of all, one can spend more time with his family helping his child do his homework, fishing with the whole family, etc. Second of all, one has fewer responsibilities. He just does his job and does not care about the market, competitors and expected profit. One taking a vacation can forget about all troubles, relax and not worry about who does his job during his absence. Finally, an employee can always find a more interesting job with a higher salary.
	From the other side, be self-employed have many benefits too. First of all, one knows the more he works the more he gets. Another important reason of being self-employed is independence. One does not have to report to anyone except one's self. However, in addition to these practical benefits, one gets more responsibilities to take care of.
	To sum up, I think that be self-employed is not as easy as it may seem. A person must be self-confident, strong and patient. He must know exactly what he wants and be ready to sacrifice all his spare time to it. I have a family and at this moment I am not sure that I am ready to sacrifice my time to the job.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/421-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-195-many-people-have-a-close-relationship-with-their-pets",
Essay 1500:
	Some people do not have any pets in their house, except for unwanted ones such as a racoon or mouse. These people think that there is no place for animals in their places. However, other people have animals such as dogs, cats, and birds in their families and they have a close relationship with their pets. Personally, I belong to the people who treat their pets as members of their family. For several reasons, which I will mention bellow, I think that such relationships between a man and an animal bring many benefits.
	First of all, when people treat their pets as members of their families it means that they feel responsibilities for their little ones. As a result of this people care about their pets' health, their diet and shape, and I think both sides benefit from this kind of relationships. People do not feel alone and pets are in good hands. Personally, I think that pets give people a great opportunity to feel they are needed by these little but at the same time very courageous animals. Second of all, pets teach people, especially children, kindness and devotion. Children grow up kinder, more attentive and friendlier. Finally, often pets are the closest and most devoted friends of people and I am sure that we return them the same feelings. I think it is great and makes everyone a little bit happier. For example, when I was a child my family had a beautiful cat named "Nikola". We loved him very much and treat him as a member of our family. So, when he died we could not get used to the fact that he was not home. It was the feeling like we lost some of our family. Since then we did not have the cat. Now my parents have a bird and a couple of golden fish.
	In conclusion, I think that pets play a very important role in our everyday life. There are plenty of examples when animals saved people's lives and helped us in out fight with evil such as drugs and violence. So, I believe that our pets deserve the best we can offer them our love and devotion.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/420-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-194-every-generation-of-people-is-different-in-important-ways",
Essay 1501:
	Man, through the ages, has undergone many changes from the time he depicted a herd of mammoths on the walls of his cave to these days when he can use personal computers to create a new pattern for his carpet, send e-mail to his friend and even make him a cup of coffee without leaving his chair. There is no doubt that every generation is different in many ways from the old ones. In the following paragraphs, I will list some differences which I believe exist between my generation and my parents' generation.
	First of all, I think that my generation is more familiar with the modern technology than my parents' generation. For example, my mother learned from me about the Internet. I was the first person to explain to my parents what the Internet is and how to use it.
	Second of all, people of my generation have different interests and different opinions about many things. For example, my parents and I have different views about the decision made by the government. My mother thinks that more money should be spent on books and libraries for the children, and I think that more money should be spent on computer technologies.
	Finally, I think that people of my generation tend to forget many traditions and customs of the country they were born in. We often forget about the meaning of the holidays our parents celebrate. I cannot say that it is wrong I just think it is normal when recent historical events are celebrated with more enthusiasm. However, I believe that all people should remember their history and pass it down to the next generation because this knowledge is irreplaceable and priceless for every person.
	To sum up, there is no doubt that next generation is always better prepared for the future than the old one, and this means that our children will also be more experienced than we do now. And I think it is for the best.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/419-boys-and-girls-should-attend-separate-schools",
Essay 1502:
	Whether boys and girls should attend separate schools is a controversial issue. Some people believe that it brings many benefits. However, others believe that it is not good for the future of our children. I agree with those people who think that children should attend the same schools. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support my opinion.
	First of all, children from the very beginning should learn how to communicate with each other. They need to learn social skills, be supportive and understand each other. Second of all, I believe that now women and men should be treated in the same way. A woman nowadays has the same rights as a man. She also wants to make a good career and succeed. So, it is essential in the modern world to understand that knowledge has nothing to do with a sex. Everyone has the same access to the knowledge and experience and it is only up to a person how hard he or she wants to work to reach his or her goals.
	Another important aspect of this is that if children attend separate schools they do not have common interests. They do not know what a person of an opposite sex likes, how he or she spends her or his spare time, etc. I think that it is not good in a long run. Some of them will create a family someday and most likely will not have anything to share. They will not have common interests. They will have different friends and opinions about things. We had such experience a few centuries ago. Women grow up their children and men worked and gathered in the men' clubs in the evenings. I think it is not the way it should be. A family has many beautiful moments to share together.
	To sum up, I think that children should attend the same schools because it will help them to become great, attentive and kind persons. Moreover, they will learn how to respect each other's interests.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/418-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-192-reading-fiction-is-more-enjoyable-than-watching-movies",
Essay 1503:
	Some people prefer to read fiction. However, others like to watch movies. Personally, I think that the question whether reading fiction is more enjoyable than watching movies is a controversial one. For several reasons, which I will mention below, I think each of these options has its advantages.
	From the one side, reading fiction brings many benefits. First of all, a book can be taken anywhere one goes. For example, while travelling or just taking a bus one can read a book. When I was a student a couple years ago I used to read books while taking a boring lecture. Second of all, reading extends one's vocabulary, improves reading and even writing skills. Reading is essential for children. It extends their range of interests, improves their imagination and helps them gain more knowledge and experience through books. When I was a child my mom always made me read a lot of books. Thanks to her, I did not have a problem with writing different kinds of essays in the school and I got only high grades.
	From the other side, watching movies has many benefits too. Firstly, movies usually have more influence on people, their behaviour and mood. In addition, watching a movie in a movie theatre gives many advantages such as sound effects, a large screen, etc. Secondly, it is a good way to relax with one's friends, eliminate stress and tension and just have a good time. My husband and I like to watch a movie on Sunday evenings. We drink coffee, eat grapes or apples and make comments while watching the movie. In addition to these benefits, watching movie takes less time than reading the whole book in most of the cases.
	In conclusion, I think that there is no doubt that watching a movie is more enjoyable and impressive than reading a book. However, reading a book brings more benefits for people in general. Moreover, children should spend more time reading books than watching different kinds of movies because scientists say that watching movies has much less use for the growing child.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/417-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-191-what-are-the-qualities-of-a-good-neighbor",
Essay 1504:
	From my point of view, the ideal neighbour must always be ready to offer help. For instance, If I need to go somewhere he would offer me to babysit my children and borrow his car. One more thing, I think it would be great if he picked up my mail and watered my plants while I was on vacation.
	Finally, I think good neighbours are those who become friends. From my opinion it is sufficient.
	However, if talk about my "ideal" neighbour I can add some extra qualities. First of all, he should allow me to listen to loud music. I think it would be great if he did not call a police if I decided to turn on my radio fully in the late evening or in the early morning. Second of all, my "ideal" neighbour should allow me to use his backyard for my party. I understand that it is almost impossible to find such a good neighbour, but if at least half of my requirements are satisfied I will appreciate it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/416-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-190-universities-should-give-the-same-amount-of-money-to-their-students-sports-activities",
Essay 1505:
	Some people believe that universities should give more money for the sports activities. They claim that importance of libraries and sports are the same. I can not completely agree with this statement. In the following paragraphs, I will give some basic reasons why I think that way.
	As for sports activities, I think it must be up to a person. First of all, he or she goes to a university to gain knowledge, not lose some weight or work out. Second of all, a student must arrange his or her time in order to have time to exercise. However, I must say that every university should have few playgrounds, a pool and a fitness centre where students may have a rest after strained days.
	One more reason to have really good libraries is that it can save not only money but time for students. A person has not to drive to the bookstore to get materials he or she is looking for. So, a library can save time that then can be spent on a sport.
	To draw the conclusion, I think libraries must stay the main resource of knowledge. So, if a university has some extra money they should be spent on the new books, new software and new equipment for the libraries.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/415-some-high-schools-require-all-students-to-wear-school-uniforms",
Essay 1506:
	It is true that some secondary schools require their students to wear uniforms, while others allow their students to wear free clothing. Both policies have their own positive points, but I personally think that it is better for high school students to wear uniforms.
	To begin with, it is common that some high schools do not require their students to wear uniforms. They believe that uniforms should not be the main concern of education, and schools should focus more on the curriculum quality and learning process than focusing on dresses. Besides that, they also believe that spending on school uniforms is also a waste of money, as the fund could be allocated for other important matters such as books or stationary.  
	On the other hand, for a number of reasons many secondary education institutions necessitate their students to wear school uniforms. These institutions believe that by wearing school uniforms, students will learn about discipline; and how to wear proper and formal clothing. By allowing the students to wear free clothes, there might be a risk that students will wear inappropriate clothing during school hours. And then with the existence of school uniforms, it will not differentiate the economic class of students.  Although some students might come from a wealthy family, they must wear the same quality clothing as the other students who come from various backgrounds.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that wearing school uniforms has become mandatory for several secondary education institutions, but there are other institutions who allow their students to decide their own clothes. Both points of views have their own advantages, but I believe that wearing school uniforms for high school students is more favourable than wearing free clothes.
Essay 1507:
	First of all, if students do not have school uniforms they can wear what they like to wear. Personally, I like to wear clothes which are comfortable. Also, I am a female and I like to wear jeans and shorts, and as far as I know girls must wear skirts as part of their school uniform. I think many female students will agree with me that jeans are much more comfortable than skirts.
	Second of all, I believe that school uniforms must not cause any discomfort. For example, some international students will find it unacceptable to wear some of the uniform's parts. I am from Russia and when I was a student of the elementary school I was required to wear the school uniform that included a dark blue skirt and a white or light blue shirt. I did not like it very much because I did not like the fact that all students were dressed in the same colour. We dressed the same way and we were permitted to wear any adornments. Personally, I did not like the fact that girls always had to wear skirts and it was not convenient, especially in cold weather.
	In short, I think that students should wear to school what they want. Otherwise, if a high school requires students to wear school uniforms, I think that uniforms must be comfortable for all students.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/414-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-188-people-are-no-longer-allowed-to-smoke-in-many-public-places",
Essay 1508:
	There is no scope for any doubt that "Smoking is injurious to health ". Taking this fact into consideration, many countries have taken actions of strictly prohibiting smoking in public places. I strongly feel that this is a good move to reduce smoking and keeping the environment safe, even though many smokers are strongly against this move.
	First of all, smoking not only affects the health condition of the smokers but also of the nonsmokers by a process called passive smoking. In fact, it is a scientifically proven fact that passive smokers get more health hazards compared to the smokers. Various diseases like asthma, lung cancer, pneumonia, heart and valve ailments are found common among such individuals. This is why, to improve the public health and to prevent dangerous diseases, banning smoking in public places and in office buildings is an effective move.
	Secondly, smoking in public places like schools, parks, shopping complexes, beaches, offices etc. tend to develop a strong desire among young generation to inculcate this habit. To nurture a healthy young generation, we should support the idea that public smoking should be banned.
	Finally, by discouraging smoking in outdoor areas, the smokers can be gradually forced to quit their habit or can reduce the number of cigarettes being smoked. Considering this I feel that banning public smoking is a good rule and all countries should adopt this policy.
	In conclusion, I strongly recommend that all countries should put forward this rule for the health and well-being of their public. Even the smoking zones that are already placed in some of the public places should also be banned completely.
Essay 1509:
	The question about whether people should be allowed to smoke in public places is the one that is open for debate. All people can be divided into two groups- smokers and non-smokers. Smokers agree that they do not benefit the society by smoking, but think that they should have some special places in office buildings or public places where they can smoke. However, others believe that smokers should not be allowed to smoke in any places except their own apartments. Personally, I completely agree with the last opinion. For the following reasons, which I will mention bellow, I think that smokers should not contaminate the air other people breathe.
	The first reason for this is that smokers not only damage their own health but actually cause damage to the health of others. Scientists say that people who do not smoke but regularly breathe in the smoke of cigarettes, so-called "passive smokers", poison their health more than smokers themselves. For example, when I was a student I lived with the roommate who was a chain smoker. First I did not know what to do, I smelled that smoke everywhere and I could not breathe freely, but in a few weeks, I got used to it. Now I think that I was a real smoker because of the fact that I regularly breathed in so much smoke.
	Second of all, I think that people should not be allowed to smoke in public places and in office buildings because this rule will force them to quit. Smokers will have to quit smoking or at least will do it less often and this benefits all people smokers as well as not smokers.
	Finally, smoking in public places contributes to the growth of the number of smokers because many people seeing smokers may feel the desire to smoke and join them. The advertisement of cigarettes is already prohibited by the law and I think it is a good sign because many people become smokers only because they see other people do it.
	In conclusion, I think that this rule will benefit the society of every country and our world on the whole.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/413-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-187-what-are-some-of-the-important-qualities-of-a-good-roommate",
Essay 1510:
	Every student, during some parts of their education, especially while doing professional courses, has to stay away from home and live in a hostel accommodation. During this period, they share their rooms with other students. Roommates with certain qualities become ideal and others expect to have such roommates. In my opinion, a good roommate should be kind, understanding, open-minded, and free from any bad habit that would disturb the other members of the room.
	First and foremost, a good roommate should be kind and generous. He or she should be able to help the roommate when needed in their studies and give them mental support. There should not be any unnecessary fights or arguments. Moreover, he or she has to be understanding and friendly.
	Secondly, that person should not be selfish. As they live together, there should be an open-mindedness to share the facilities available equally between the two. For example, the time for using the bathroom, usage of night lamp for studies and so on.
	Lastly, a nice roommate should be free of any bad habits like smoking, gambling and drinking. It is quite often the fact that roommates with bad habit can influence others very fast since students spend most of the time with them and finally end up taking these habits to themselves. This, in turn, can have a very bad impact on their health, studies and characters.
	In conclusion, having a good roommate is essential for our professional and personal growth and as a roommate, we should also possess those qualities.
Essay 1511:
	When I was a student at a Russian University I lived with my friend Tonia. Frankly speaking, she was not my friend at first. I mean that we meet when we were in our first year at university. She was looking for a place to live and I offered her to stay at my place because I lived alone and it was quite expensive for me at that time. I must confess that I never felt regret about my decision because Tonia turned out to be a great roommate. Moreover, we became friends and now after two years from my graduation, we still call each other, care about each other and chat through the Internet. Unfortunately, now we live in different cities even in different countries, but I hope our friendship will continue.
	In this essay, I will list the main qualities of a good roommate which from my point of view are essential. Furthermore, I must inform that Tonia possesses all these qualities and I am proud to have such a great friend.
	First of all, a roommate must be kind and generous. It is easier to deal with a person who is kind and ready to offer a hand. For example, kindness and understanding are essential qualities if one of them got ill. Secondly, roommates must have common interests because it will help them to find more subjects to discuss. I think that when people have nothing to talk about they should not live together because it will be difficult for both of them. In addition, a roommate must be funny but at the same time, she or he must be attentive and understanding. Selfishness is not a good quality for a roommate because people who live together should be attentive to each other's feelings and be ready to sacrifice their time to each other.
	In short, I think that roommates must be friends because friendship means understanding and sympathy.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/412-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-186-is-there-more-need-for-land-to-be-left-in-its-natural-condition",
Essay 1512:
	From the one side, saving land in its natural condition brings many benefits. First of all, many wild animals will thrive in our forests. Unfortunately, nowadays many wild animals are endangered because they do not have any place to live in and enough food to eat. Second of all, our children will be able to learn about animals not only from books but also from observing them in their natural environment. In addition to those benefits, our air will be cleaner because many forests will clean it from pollution and make it fresher.
	From the other side, deforesting our land and building many new constructions can have a few positive aspects. For example, building new industrial buildings may have a positive impact on the country's economy. Many new companies will have the opportunity to produce more goods and as the result of this the country will receive more money from abroad and this will lead to the improvement of the economy on the whole.
	To conclude, all mentioned above, I think that we need to be more careful with the natural resources we consume and, moreover, we can do something to preserve them. For example, companies that produce lumber can also resume the resources of wood by planting new trees there. This way we can preserve our land and save it from defrosting. I must agree that it is difficult for Russia at this moment not to develop land for housing and industry because the country needs money and a stronger economy, but I believe that many new factories can replace the old ones without developing new land. So, my point is that we must extend the production of new goods but not at the expense of the wild animals and their land.
Essay 1513:
	It has become a debatable issue in Indonesia- whether more lands should be converted into real estate and commercial areas or should the government preserve and maintain the natural areas. The following essay will discuss both views, but in my opinion, we could expand new residential areas but it should be accurately measured and properly executed.
	For a number of reasons, the government of Indonesia should conserve some of its' natural areas. Firstly, these green areas are producing oxygen which is an important part of the human respiration. As the number of trees and plants are decreasing, it might have a negative effect on the air quality. Secondly, the existence of the green areas can prevent some natural disasters such as flood and erosion. One of the examples would the annual flood disaster in Jakarta, which was caused by the conversion of Mangrove forests in the suburb of Kapuk into residential areas.
	On the other hand, Indonesia has experienced a significant growth in term of its population. The density level and congestion issue become a major issue for some the towns and cities in the country.  As a consequence, the demand for new housing, commercial and industrial areas increased rapidly in the past few years.  Therefore, it is understandable that the government is converting some the natural lands into residential areas.
	In conclusion, it is true that the government of Indonesia should preserve some of the natural areas, but due to the significant growth of the population, they should expand some residential and industrial land as well. In my point of view, I do agree that the government should expand housing and commercial areas in the future, but they should execute it in the proper way. It should be expanded proportionately and with cautious measurement, to ensure that the portion of natural and residential areas have a balance.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/411-some-people-trust-their-first-impressions-about-a-person-s-character",
Essay 1514:
	Some people think that first impression of a person is the most correct. However, other people disagree and believe that first impression is often wrong. From my everyday experiences and observations, I can stand that the first impression of a person is very often incorrect. In the following paragraphs, I will list my reasons to support my answer.
	First of all, when people meet for the first time they often do not have time to get to know each other or even have a conversation. So, sometimes all they remember is how they looked. Personally, I often myself judge a person by his or her external appearance. Fortunately, I many times made sure of the incorrectness of my judgments. For example, when I met my future husband for the first time he made an impression of frown and not a talkative person and, frankly speaking, I did not like him at all. We did not have a chance to talk, but his cloth and manners gave me that impression. However, after we were introduced to each other and had a long talk I changed my opinion about him. He happened to be a very sensitive and kind person.
	Secondly, I believe that the true impression about a person can be made only after people spent at least a few weeks with each other. I think that a person shows his or her internal characteristics when in danger. Moreover, some people, especially celebrities, tend to hide their weaknesses and not attractive sides in order to please an audience.
	In conclusion, I believe that first impression is very often wrong. I must confess that I unconsciously judge a person by his or her first appearance but I tell myself that this is subject to change and try to keep my opinion with me.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/410-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-184-when-students-move-to-a-new-school-they-sometimes-face-problems",
Essay 1515:
	When a student moves to a new school he or she can face some problems. I think that almost all people had to move from one place to another in their lives and I am not an exception. My family moved twice during my childhood. My father is an architect, so, my family had to move from one place to another when the old construction was over and my father was offered to develop a new project. Two major problems I had to face in a new school were "no friends" and "a huge amount of new people". In the following paragraphs, I will analyse these problems and make suggestions about how a school can help a student in this situation.
	The first difficulty I had to face in a new school was a huge amount of new people such as teachers and classmates, who have no idea who I am. It was easy with the teachers, I usually stayed after the class, introduced myself to him or her and asked about their curriculum. However, with my new classmates, it was a little more difficult. I had to stand up for myself a few times because this is the way students get to know each other. However, I believe that there is a better way to get to know each other. I think that schools should participate in this process. For example, they can organise some kind of welcome class, where new students will have the opportunity to meet their new classmates and introduce themselves.
	The second problem I had to face in a new school was that I had no friends. I could not meet my old friends because they were too far away and I did not have a chance to make new friends. Nowadays, I think it is easier because almost every student has an Internet access, so, he can chat with his old friends. Unfortunately, I did not have such an opportunity when I was a student. I believe that schools can help newcomers by helping them to merge faster with their new classes. For example, a school can attach someone to a newcomer and the first one will help a new student to accustom himself to a new environment.
	In conclusion, I would like to add, that moving from one school to another brings not only problems but also many benefits. For example, I learned how to make new friends fast and how to overcome obstacles. I think that it made me stronger as a person and I am glad that I had this experience in my life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/409-which-do-you-prefer-planning-or-not-planning-for-leisure-time",
Essay 1516:
	Nowadays people have so many things to do that they almost always do not have enough time for it. When we go to bed we carefully think and plan our next day and it continues day in and day out. We wake up, recollect our checklist with things to do and in a few minutes, we are already in a car on our way to the office. Often people do not have time for themselves. So, when people have some spare time they want to use it wisely. Some people prefer to plan activities for their free time very carefully. However, others prefer not to make any plans. In this essay, I will analyse both cases and present my view in favour of planning free-time activities.
	On the one side, not making any plans and just letting the time pass by for some time have some benefits. First of all, a person can just relax, enjoy the beautiful moments, spend his or her time with loved ones, watch a movie, listen to relaxing music, observe the flowers in bloom from the window, contemplate about his or her life and just slow down the pace of life. I think it is a very good way to eliminate one's stress and tension and just leave all troubles and worries behind.
	On the other side, careful planning can bring many benefits too. First of all, one can travel. However, travelling requires some planning to be made. For example, one most likely will need a hotel room. So, the reservation should be made beforehand. Also, it is wise to check one's car to avoid breakdowns and have an uninterrupted worry-free trip. Second of all, planning one's activities allows spending one's free time the way he/she likes. For instance, if I want to play tennis on the coming weekend I will certainly make a reservation for a court because in this case I will not be disappointed with the waste of my time. Personally, I prefer to make plans for my free time because it allows me to spend my vacation or weekends the way I want it.
	To conclude, I think careful planning allows people to derive maximum benefits from their free time. However, I must confess sometimes I allow myself just to stay at home with my friends and family and not make any plans.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/408-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-182-teenagers-have-jobs-while-they-are-still-students",
Essay 1517:
	Some people think that teenagers need to work while they are students. However, others believe that young people should not combine their education with a job. These two options are controversial ones. In my opinion, they both have disadvantages and advantages. I base my opinion on the following points.
	On one hand, a working student has many benefits. First of all, such a student learns how to arrange his time to be able to combine his study time and working schedule. Personally, I think that it is a very important benefit a student can get from this. Second of all, a student learns how to save money and manage his budget. A person gains new experience and knowledge working with the new people. He feels more independent and spends his or her money wisely.
	On the other hand, a student who works might not have enough time to meet his or her course requirements. Sometimes it may result in a failure on an exam and that would be a waste of money and time. From my everyday experience and observation, some people require more time to study new materials and prepare for an exam. Others, on the contrary, can easily understand new materials and they need less time. So, my point is that a person should decide for himself whether he will be able to combine his study and his work or not. Another important aspect of getting a job is that a student most likely will have no time for parties, movies and his friends. I think that he or she should understand this fact.
	To conclude, I believe that a working experience will give a student more benefits in the future than it takes from him or her in the present.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/407-compare-the-advantages-of-living-in-university-housing-with-the-advantages-of-living-in-an-apartment",
Essay 1518:
	Some students prefer to live in university dormitories. However, other students choose to live in apartments in the community. I think both of these options have advantages. In this essay, I will give my reasons to support my view.
	From the one side, living in a dormitory has many benefits. First of all, for a foreign student, it is a good chance to improve his or her communication skills and find new friends. Second of all, a dormitory has many useful facilities such as libraries, a canteen, Internet access, etc. In addition to these practical benefits living in a dormitory is often cheaper. So, it helps students save some money what is important at the beginning of their independent life. Finally, living in a dormitory gives students the opportunity to ask for help each other if something was not clear on the lecture presented in a class. This, in turn, leads to higher grades. Also, students have many common subject and interests to discuss with each other. So, basically, living in a dormitory helps students to become more sociable and good team-players and gain new knowledge and experience by use of lab, libraries and group discussion.
	From the other side, living in apartments in the community also have a few benefits. Students can have more privacy and, also, they can choose a community according to its convenience and location. It is sometimes may be an essential because of a person's job.
	In conclusion, I think that living in a dormitory brings students more benefits than it does living in a community. Students learn to get along with each other, be ready to help and make friends.
Essay 1519:
	Most large universities facilitate dormitories for its students. While a few mandate the students to live in dormitories, most keep it optional for the students to choose. With the university's perspective, students staying in hostels enable them to maintain discipline and make it easy for them to administer the students. It becomes easy for the University's administration to engage students for events, motivate students with different programs and furthermore it helps the university to keep an eye on the student's progress in non-academic activities too. With the Student's perspective, staying in the University hostel is convenient, since if the university campus is really large, a student would waste a lot of time in commute is staying at a far place. It also helps a student to have group study sessions and working groups to grow in academics and co-curricular activities.
	Since hostel accommodation is not suitable for many students because of few negatives like ragging, harassment and lack of privacy, many students prefer to have their own arrangement. Students prefer to live in apartments in communities either sharing with a fellow student or living as a paying guest with a family. This has many advantages such as the students can tailor the room as per their demand and preference. It also helps students to live an affordable living and save the cost. Students get their privacy and space to study without getting disturbed by nuances. While it has advantages, it can also make a student lonely which can increase the stress resulting into problems like depression.
	In a nutshell, every student can have their personal preferences and should decide what suits them best. Personally, I would prefer living in a hostel accommodation where I can learn new things, make new friends and build new bonds with beautiful experiences. As every individual is unique, their needs are unique, University Administration can work towards making the hostels suit to the students’ needs as much as possible. Students can use the experience to the betterment of their career.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/406-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-180-job-with-long-hours-that-would-give-you-little-time-with-family",
Essay 1520:
	If I was asked to make a choice between a high-paying job with long hours and a lower-paying job with shorter hours I would hesitate to answer. I did not decide for myself yet what I want in my life more my family or my career. I think that these options are very different ones and one needs time to make a right decision.
	From the one side, a high-paying job with long hours gives one more opportunities to make a great career and succeed in life. Another important aspect of this is that one can earn more money for his family. In addition to these practical benefits, a person can get satisfaction and self-realisation that are very important in one's life. I think that it is a very great and essential feeling to be a part of the progress, make differences and be satisfied with the job. However, a high-paying job with long hours brings many disadvantages too. For example, a person will have less time for his family and friends. Secondly, the job will be more stressful and bring more responsibilities. A person will have to sacrifice many things to his job.
	From the other side, a low-paying job with shorter hours can bring many benefits. One can spend more time with his family and have many pleasant and beautiful moments together. Also, a job will be less stressful and not require to sacrifice one's spare time to get it done. However, a person most likely will not be able to make a career and make much money. Moreover, one's salary may be not enough to pay for his children's education.
	To sum up, I think that every person at least one time in his life realize this and make a decision whether he or she wants a career or great family. And I did not make this decision yet.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/405-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-179-what-do-you-consider-to-be-the-most-important-room-in-a-house",
Essay 1521:
	My husband and I live in an apartment, which includes a bedroom, living room, bathroom and kitchen. We do not have children yet, so our apartment is pretty small but it is cheap and cozy. If I would have to choose the most important room in a house I think it would be living room. In the following paragraphs, I will present my reasons to support my answer.
	First of all, a living room is the place where we take our guests. It is the main and the biggest room in our apartment and we try to keep it clean and cozy. For example, my husband vacuums it every other day especially when it is wet outside and our dog makes dirty sports on the carpet with its paws after a walk. Second of all, I think that living room is the most important room in our house because we spend most of our time there watching TV, having our dinner and just talking with each other. Finally, our living room is a place where we study. Since our apartment is rather small we do not have a room for studying, so I have my table with the computer on it in our living room. I like to study there because the room is perfectly light with the large windows and the beautiful view from them.
	My parents have a much bigger house with six rooms, large kitchen and two floors. However, I think that my mother would agree with me that their living room is the most important room in the house. When we visit them we always gather there, lay the table, and have a long talk. My mother makes delicious cakes and aromatic tea. I like those moments.
	To sum up, I think many people will agree with me that living room is the most important room in a house because it is the room where people spend most of their time at home.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/404-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-178-people-should-sometimes-do-things-that-they-do-not-enjoy-doing",
Essay 1522:
	Moreover, I hate shopping. It is my opinion that shopping takes too much time which I can spend doing things I enjoy doing. Nevertheless every week I go to the nearest supermarket because otherwise my refrigerator will be empty and I can not afford to have dinner at the restaurant every day. Besides, I like to cook. So, a few hours spent on shopping makes me happy for the whole week. Is not it great?
	From my point of view when a man has to do things that he does not like to, he becomes stronger, more responsible and can enjoy life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/403-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-177-what-is-one-kind-of-plant-that-is-important-to-you-or-the-people",
Essay 1523:
	Nowadays, governments manage various schedules and follow different policies to preserve the forests because the plants not only are the habitats of many animals, but also have significant benefits such as providing food, shelter, cover, and drug for the humankind. Although some people noticeably believe that food is the certain advantage of plants, in my reckoning, I prefer the plants which provide useful drugs and medicines and owing to special weather in my city.  
	First and foremost, because of the special weather in my hometown, the farmers grow the medicinal plants more than other plants. As a matter of fact, the condition forces farmers to cultivate these plants. On the other hand, there are various kinds of modern transportation systems, factories, and to name a few which emit hazardous pollutants into the air. Without any doubt, these emissions not only destroy the animal's habitat but also cause many dangerous illnesses to the human. Also, according to some research conducted by many experts of psychology, the plant's drug has a profound impact on curing people and this is specifically true for the people in my country.
	Moreover, medicinal plants and herbal drugs have very little side effects and the people in my country rely on those herbal medicines for different diseases. In contrast to natural drugs, the chemical drugs sometimes have irrecoverable effects. Scientists proved that although the chemical drugs can cure some diseases, it has critical side effects on our body.
	Indisputably, having more effective outcomes of the medicinal plants is the dominant reason for my preference of the medicinal plants.
Essay 1524:
	Plants play a very important role in our everyday life and our very existence depends on the oxygen we breathe which is produced by the plants. They give us oxygen, provide different medicines, clothing and food. Every country has its own staple food that dominates in the diet of dwellers of that country. For example, the staple food for Japan and Korea is rice. As for me, I am from Russia and our staple plants are potato and wheat.
	Some people in my country believe that wheat is the most important plant because it provides full and nutritious meals. People bake bread and cookies, cook kasha and soup. At old times people in Russia raised wheat and prayed for the good harvest in order to survive. Millet has a good storage time so it gives the opportunity to consume it a whole year. Thus this was an important plant in my country for a long.
	However, nowadays bread is no longer of that importance. A person has more products to choose from. Besides, some people tend to exclude bread from their diet in order to decrease their daily calorie intake and lose some weight. Personally, I think that potato is a more important plant than wheat in Russia and this is the kind of plant I like the most due to its extensive usefulness and our reliance on it. Virtually, every Russian has potato every day at least once. One can boil, fry, bake or mash it. My favourite meal is baked potato with cheese and a glass of milk. I think it is delicious and it does not take much time to cook it. Moreover, potatoes are easier to raise and store.
	To conclude, I think that potato by far is the most important plant in Russia and this is why I consider it as the most important plant in my country and also for the Russian people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/402-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-176-a-new-movie-theatre-may-be-built-in-your-neighborhood",
Essay 1525:
	First of all, I like movies and my husband and I sometimes go to the movie theatre to watch premieres. Unfortunately, it is time-consuming for us. We have to drive about 50 minutes to the nearest movies theatre. So, the idea of having a movie theatre in our neighbourhood seems very attractive. It would save us an hour just to get there and another hour to get back home. Another important aspect of it is that in this case, we will be able to get to the movie theatre by foot. I must confess that we always have parking troubles in the parking space near the movie theatre.
	Second of all, a new movie theatre is a very good place for students who want to earn some money. My husband and I live near a student community, so I think it would be a great news for them. In addition to this practical benefit students will be able to watch all movies free of charge. I suppose it is a great way to save some money.
	Finally, there are usually many restaurants and entertaining centres around a movie theatre and people can have dinner or play game machines there. In contrast, I think that the building of a new movie theatre will destroy the silence and beauty of out community. Such entertaining centres are often noisy. Moreover, traffic jams will probably be the result of it.
	In conclusion, I think that if the question was about building a new movie theatre in the next neighbourhood I would completely agree. I agree due to the advantages if will offer.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/401-teachers-should-be-paid-according-to-how-much-their-students-learn",
Essay 1526:
	The education sector in a country is quite important and different policies are taken by the authority to enhance the quality of education. One such policy suggested by some is that teachers' payment should be based on the scale of students' learning. This might sound an alluring idea, but I personally disagree with it.
	To begin with, theoretically, the policy of paying a teacher based on how much his students actually learn is quite a good one. But the practical aspect is quite different as it is almost impossible to accurately judge the level of students learning curve taught by a teacher. For instance, some students perform quite brilliantly in a class while others even fail to grasp the basic concepts. This can be seen even in a single classroom where the same teachers are teaching those students. Moreover, this policy would create an outburst and dissatisfaction among the teachers and would actually decline their motivation. Not to mention, this would actually decline the education and teaching quality which is not at all desirable.  
	Another key thing to remember is that teaching profession is already failing to attract talented individuals as they opt to more attractive salary offered by other professions. If payment based on students learning curve is considered, it would make it an even less attractive profession. On contrary to this policy, more training, motivations, monitoring teaching styles of teachers and then counselling, student feedback on teachers could be better alternatives.
	To conclude, teachers' role, in a country, is very important and no policy that might be detrimental for their motivation or for the educational setup should be launched. Alternative ways like training teachers, better study environment, students' feedback etc. for ensuring quality education and motivating teachers should be in place.
Essay 1527:
	Education is perhaps the most important aspect of a nation's development and teachers play a crucial role in ensuring the quality education in a school. I have to disagree with the statement that teachers should be paid according to how much their students learn. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support my opinion.
	First of all, students in a class are different and they do not have  the similar ability to learn and understand the given lectures. Some students have to spend many hours studying a subject while others can do that quickly. Second, students have different goals in attending schools. Some students want to gain more knowledge and experience that will help them in the future to succeed and make a great career. Others are forced to go to a school by their parents, so, basically, they do not care about their grades and studying and this might be true due to the age they attend the schools as well.
	To draw the conclusion, from my everyday experience and observation, I can say that the quality of the lectures given by the teachers often does not reflect how much a student learn or wants to learn. This is why adopting the payment policy based on student's learning is not a good idea.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/400-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-174-do-you-think-that-daily-homework-is-necessary-for-students",
Essay 1528:
	Homework helps students better understand their study materials and class lessons and regular homework attach students to their academic lessons more deeply. However, some people believe that homework does not bring any benefits. Personally, I think that this issue has some advantages and disadvantages. In this essay first I will focus on the reasons I support this idea about daily homework and then I will move on to analysing its disadvantages. However, my personal opinion would be in favour of homework as I believe this is mostly helpful.
	From the one side, daily homework brings many benefits. As I already mentioned, it helps students understand subjects more deeply. Also, young people learn how to arrange their time to have all things done on time. In addition to those practical benefits daily homework teaches students how to make their own research if something is not clear. Curiosity is one of the main reasons that leads a person to a success. Students learn to make their research, work with different kinds of informational resources such as Internet, books, magazines, journals and newspapers. I think it is a great experience and it is very good for a long run.
	From the other side, daily homework can bring many disadvantages. For instance, if a person has no interest in biology, but has a huge interest in music he has to spend his precious time doing his homework and reading uninteresting books instead of spending the time practising new melodies. Another important aspect of this that a student can have no time for his physical activities. So, basically, doing daily homework will not keep him in a good shape.
	To sum up, I think that an intermediate position can be taken. For example, a student will have to do his daily homework if he is going to specialise in this field in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/399-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-173-choose-a-vehicle-and-explain-why-you-think-it-has-changed-people-s-lives",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/398-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-172-is-the-ability-to-read-and-write-more-important-today-than-in-the-past",
Essay 1529:
	The human, through the ages, has undergone many changes from the time when he depicted mammoth herds on the walls of a cave to nowadays when he works on a computer with a large amount of information. From my everyday experience and observation, I can state several factors, which defend the statement that the ability to read and write is very important today. At old times people did not depend on information that much. They did not have to fill out many application forms, write a lot, read news from a newspaper about an economic situation, etc. Now the situation has changed. Knowledge and the ability to analyse information are more important now than man's physical strength.
	First of all, it is essential for a person to be literate in Informational Age. Every day one needs to withdraw money from cash machines, to pay a bill, to write out a check, to fill some forms, to read instructions, ads, job requirements and applications. It is almost impossible to survive in modern society without these basic abilities. Almost every job requires these important skills. Imagine that one does not have them and one has a family to care about. So, one's first step is to find a job. One can do it either through newspapers or by asking help from one's friends. One can not read, so one chooses the second way. The second step is to pass a job interview and fill out some forms. Moreover, one has to sign a job contract - an important document that concludes all one's rights and terms. So, basically, it is almost impossible to get a job for a literate person in the modern world, especially in developed countries.
	Second of all, the number of jobs that do not require the ability to read and write, is dramatically decreasing. Almost every employer wants to have an employee with basic communication and computer skills. In fact, more jobs on the labour market are for literate persons. A lot of primitive jobs are done by machines nowadays. So, it is a very good chance for illiterate people to be constantly on unemployment lists.
	In conclusion, I think that every country must have strong programs against illiteracy.
Essay 1530:
	The ability to read and write has always been advantageous for people living in a civilised society. In order to fully interact with others, it is essential that we have the necessary tools for communicating our thoughts and ideas with each other. Besides vocalising, the skills of reading and writing remain the best methods of accomplishing the basic task of communication with our fellow human beings. In addition to making communication possible, reading and writing are also vital because they allow us to process information from a myriad of sources, such as books, newspapers, magazines, letters, journals, instructional guides, menus, bus schedules and of course, the Internet.
	Although the ability to read and write has always been of prime importance, I believe that it is even more so today than it was in times past. Long ago, reading and writing were extremely important because people had no other way to communicate with each other from a distance besides the written word. However, in the more recent past, people gained the ability to easily communicate with others via the telephone. One drawback resulting from the invention of the telephone was the decline in written communication. People eventually stopped writing letters to one another because it was simpler -- not to mention much faster -- to just ring someone up on the phone. Talking replaced writing as the preferred method of communication. The telephone completely changed the entire world, and it reigned supreme for approximately sixty years, from about 1935 until 1995. Since the latter date, the Internet suddenly exploded upon the scene and radically changed the world yet again. Email became the quickest and most effective way to communicate. Most people began using their smartphones to text instead of talking on them. Consequently, social media erupted and took hold of people all over the planet. Communication on a global scale became common, with the advent of Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, LinkedIn, Reddit, Pinterest, Yelp and Tumblr. These developments have led to a new era, in which the need to read and write has become more important than ever.
	In conclusion, I think it is safe to say that people who lack the ability to write in a clear and coherent manner are at a distinct disadvantage when it comes to actively participating in modern society. Reading comprehension is equally relevant, as people who are unable to process the written word cannot grasp the meaning of what others are attempting to convey to them. There can be no understanding between individuals when the barrier of illiteracy prevents the act of communication. It is my belief that reading and writing are more important in today's world than at any other point during the past one hundred years.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/397-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-171-schools-should-ask-students-to-evaluate-their-teachers",
Essay 1531:
	The idea of evaluating teachers by their students is an excellent practice and can bring many benefits to the whole education system. I believe this approach is useful to teachers, learners as well as schools. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support my opinion.
	First of all, teachers have clear benefits when their pupils assess their performance. It brings the opportunity for educators to find out how well their students understand their lectures. It also helps them improve their knowledge and teaching methods. Also, the authority, from such assessments, can find out the best trainers in their institutes. Reversely, teachers who perform poorly in such reviews, get the opportunity to tune in their teaching methods and develop classroom skills. This can improve the level of professionalism and teaching techniques among the teachers.
	Secondly, students also profit greatly from such reviews.They will more often attend lectures because they feel a part of the school. Students feel connected with the school authority when they are given the freedom to rate their teachers. It helps them sort out the teachers who need better training. The whole process develops the education system in which they learn. 
	Finally and most importantly, the quality of education and the learning environment will improve dramatically which impacts the learners' knowledge and skills over time. In addition to those practical benefits, a school will be better funded by its sponsors and valued by the community. This, in turn, will attract more students because it will be an honour to study in such a school.
	To conclude, the evaluation of teachers by their students will bring many benefits and allow students, as well as their teachers, to gain more knowledge and experience. It will help the school authority run the school in a better fashion.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/396-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-170-it-is-more-important-for-students-to-study-history-and-literature-than-it-is-for-them-to-study-science-and-mathematics",
Essay 1532:
	Many people believe that students should give more attention to the subjects of history and literature rather than mathematic or science. I personally disagree with the statement, as I believe that all subjects that are taught in school are important and the following paragraphs will explain some of the reasons in details.
	Firstly, it is a fact that all subjects that are delivered at school are important. All the subjects that are thought in school will be useful for students when they grow up, even though each student will be a specialised in some specific subject. For example, although a student might become a history teacher in the future, it is essential for him/ her to learn about mathematic and economics as well. Since as a teacher, he/ she will be given other tasks besides tutoring such as preparing the expenditure budget of his class for one year and that require some accounting and calculation skills.
	Secondly, it is obvious that all individuals have their own different talent. Some students may have a personal interest in studying in English literature while others might have the passion in learning physical science. And if the school only focus on studying two or three particular subjects such as literature or history, then it would be unfair for students who have the passion in mathematic or science.  
	In conclusion, I do not agree that school should emphasise more on the subjects of history and literature than mathematics or science. I do believe that schools should teach each of the subjects proportionately since all of the subjects are beneficial for the students. Besides that, each of the students has his own different talent, therefore school cannot enforce students to focus studying some specific subject only.
Essay 1533:
	Some people believe that students should study more history and literature. However, other people think that studying science and mathematics is more important. From my experience and observation, I think that students should study both science and history. Below, I will outline some basic reasons to support my opinion.
	First of all, I believe that studying history and literature is important for the range of interests of students and people on the whole. It extends the range of interests and teaches people to analyse their history. Every person should know the history of the country where he or she was born. Knowledge of one's roots and origins gives the opportunity to understand many things that are around.
	Second of all, I think that this kind of knowledge is essential for students who are going to be lawyers, newspapermen, political figures, etc. One more reason to study history is that it helps one to analyse mistakes made by ancestors or learn from their wise decisions. From the other side, I think that it is also important for students to study science. Personally, I like studying mathematics because for me it is very interesting to work with figures, analyse them, develop different ways to solve the problem. It teaches one to think logically and improves one's ability to think non-typically. I think it is great.
	Studying of science allows people to improve their living conditions, make discoveries, develop innovations, etc. Scientists work on new vaccines and pills to make our life longer and happier. They make researches in different fields from medicine to space. Because of this kind of knowledge humankind has opportunities to watch TV, fly, using jet aeroplanes, surf the Internet, play computer games, watch movies, drive cars, etc.
	In conclusion, I think that students must study many things including science and literature in order to succeed in the modern world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/395-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-169-a-company-is-going-to-give-some-money-either-to-support-the-arts-or-to-protect-the-environment",
Essay 1534:
	Human, through the ages, has undergone many changes from the time when he depicted a herd of mammoths on the walls of the cave to nowadays when the arts are more complicated. Our attitude towards the environment is changed too. A few centuries ago people did not care about pollution, erosion, animal extinction, etc. However, nowadays people, again and again, talk about this and try to make a difference. I think that money donation for environment protection must take priority over the support of the arts. Bellow, I will give my reasons to support my answer.
	The invention of the automobile is undoubtedly one of the humankind's greatest inventions. However, the automobile brought us many disadvantages as well. The air nowadays is polluted by millions of cars every day. Every day clouds of exhaust are rising from the ground contaminating all around. So, I think that money from a company can be used to make our air fresher and cleaner.
	Another important aspect of this is the contamination of water. Water is an essential resource for all living creatures. Nothing will survive without it. Unfortunately, we spend fresh water sometimes very carelessly. Also, many factories wash away their used resources in the nearest river poisoning everything alive there. I think that monetary donations would be helpful for cleaning our water resources from oil, garbage and chemical matters.
	Finally, I think that now humankind faced the problem of overpopulation. The population is dramatically rising. We need more food, shelters, clothes, construction materials and space. So, many animals are extinguishing. So, I believe that this money could be spent on conducting a campaign against overpopulation.
	To sum up, I think that in order to make our children happy we should be more careful with the resources that we take from nature and if it is possible to restore them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/394-success-in-life-comes-from-taking-risks-or-chances",
Essay 1535:
	People have different views on how to achieve success as some believe that we should take risks for being successful, while others think measured planning is the key to success. The following essay will discuss both views in details.
	On the one hand, it is a fact that taking risks is one of the most important keys to success. Risk takers are smart and innovative people as they have creative ideas and planning and they dare to take chances. Should the plan work out, people would start to recognise and  get attracted to their ideas and output, and soon it might become a big fortune for them. For example, in 2005 Steve Jobs created the Ipad tablet which was a newly developed product at that time. Although there was a risk of failure, he took the risk of launching the product to the world and in the end, the tablet became a sensational device all over the world.
	On the other hand, some people think the only way to success is through careful and precise planning. They believe that in order to take new steps in life or to make a new business product, people should have a good feasibility study and proper planning. By having a good measurable planning, they would already anticipate and mitigate the risk should there be any failure in the plan.
	In my opinion, I believe in the combination of both ideas as people must have plans and dreams in their life and the way to achieve that dream is through making action plans and take the risk.
Essay 1536:
	Some people think that taking risks and chances will lead them to success. From my everyday experience and observation, I believe that success results from careful planning. I base my position on the following points.
	First of all, I believe that careful planning helps a person to analyse his goal more deeply and make realistic goals. He knows exactly what he wants. Taking chances, from the other hand, does not give the opportunity to clearly understand a goal. A person just wants to do something to move forward and he takes risks when there is no need of it. A fixed plan helps a person to achieve it and make the person more determined and object oriented than those who don’t have a fixed aim.
	Second, careful planning teaches people to arrange their time more carefully in order to reach their goals. They become more patient and calm. They plan every step. This allows people to find an easier way to reach their goals and  move forward faster. From the other hand, people who prefer to take risks without planning may spend more time without any improvements waiting for a chance to take. Take sportsmen for example. They exercise a lot before their performance to be in shape, do all their best and improve their previous results.
	Finally, careful planning teaches them not to give up, try to find other ways to reach their goals in the case of failure. To sum up, personally, I think that all people who succeeded in life would agree with me that their success came with the hard work and careful planning.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/393-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-167-should-governments-spend-more-money-on-improving-roads-and-highways",
Essay 1537:
	People have argued about how the government should utilise their budgets on transportation areas. Some people think that the government should spend more money on developing streets and highways, while others believe that improving public transportations is the most important one. The following essay will discuss in details about it, but I do believe that both aspects are important and should be proportionately improved.
	On the one hand, a group of people think that the government should focus on improving their street, road and highway facilities. They believe that public accesses are vital for the economic development of the respective country. Without the existence of qualified roads and highways, it will be difficult for industries to grow, as there will be some obstacles for the supply of raw materials and deliveries of goods. Consequently, it will impact on the efficiency of many companies and also to the government's income tax.
	On the other hand, other people think governments should spend more budgets on improving and maintaining public transportation such as buses, trains, aeroplanes and ferries. They believe that if the government could improve the quality of these mass transportation facilities, it will reduce traffic and air pollution problems. As public transportations become more convenient and safe, more people will use them, and it will gradually reduce the number of private vehicle users. As a consequent, it will reduce traffic congestion and reduce air pollution as well.
	In conclusion, I personally believe that the government's spending on public accesses and transportations are both essentials. And it becomes the government's task to allocate those budgets proportionately for both areas since we could not focus on one area and abandoned the other. It would be useless for a country to have good public transportations, without the support of good roads and highways.    
Essay 1538:
	Many people believe that governments should spend more money on improving roads and highways. However, other people think that more money should be spent on improving public transportation. Personally, I think that both of these opinions have their advantages and disadvantages.
	The first reason for improving public transportation is overpopulation. The number of cars is rising dramatically. As a result of this fact, the contemplation of air is increasing that leads to irreversible aftereffects such as the presence of acid rains and different kinds of human diseases. So, the improving of public transportation will reduce pollution. The second reason for this is the possibility to decrease the amount of traffic jam that also has a huge influence on air pollution. Moreover, it will save time and people's money. One does not have to pay for gas for his car, car insurance, repair, oil change and etc. The third reason for this is a sharp decrease in the level of car accidents. People will feel more secure in this case. Road accidents have become a violent issue and people feel that the Government should do something to reduce the accidents happening on the roads daily.
	However, despite all these advantages, this decision has a few disadvantages. First of all, public transportation means the presence of schedule and working hours. So, one has to wait for a bus or for a train in a subway or call for a taxi in order to get somewhere. Second of all, it is a big chance that one has to spend some time getting to the nearest bus stop or subway entrance.
	As for roads and highways,I think it is a very important and topical issue. A personal car in this modern world is an essential vehicle. It gives one freedom and independence. Improving roads and highways governments will decrease the number of car accidents and traffic jams. I believe that in several years air pollution can be dramatically reduced by using solar energy to refuel our cars.
	Finally, I think that governments should spend money on improving public transportation as well as on roads and highways because it will benefit all people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/392-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-166-groups-or-organizations-are-an-important-part-of-some-people-s-lives",
Essay 1539:
	Nowadays, it can be observed that a number groups or organisations are proliferating in society. These are mainly classified into public and private groups. I will through light on the importance of these groups in the following paragraphs.
	Public groups or associations engage in solving problems in society or in a community. Let us take the case of Lions club of our community, it is a public group which takes care of about general issues related to water supply, roads and security of our locality. The members of this group are senior citizens, retired people from work and they are volunteers. Last year this club had done an excellent job in protecting our locality from chemical pollution by blocking the establishment of chemical industry near to our residential area. This club collected votes from the people against the company establishment and addressed the government to abolish the permission. Such groups are important for society improvement. Next, there are private groups which are formed only for member's benefits.
	Private groups belong to a sector or domain. To illustrate such as, I am a member of TIBCO technology group, this is formed by people who work on TIBCO software. There 400 members in this group from various organisations, we share knowledge related to our technology, job openings in our technology and we provide job reference to group members. This kind of private clubs helps the members to grow officially.
	In summary, people are realising the importance of associations and we can expect a myriad of them in future.
Essay 1540:
	Man, through the ages, has undergone many changes from the time when he lived in the caves to nowadays when he lives in a comfortable apartment. But one thing that remains the same is that people always lived in groups and organisations such as families, the smallest group, and tribes, the bigger group. I think that the reason why people live in groups is because we need communication and what is more important we need support to survive. So, from old times to nowadays people merged in groups because it made them stronger and helped to overcome many obstacles and difficulties. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons and examples to support my answer.
	First of all, people need to communicate with each other. We need to share out ideas and thoughts with each other. I think it is very important to know that someone thinks the same way one does and supports one. In addition, communication is one of the features of reasonable animals. All animals that can communicate with each other live in herds and support each other when one of them is in need.
	The second reason, why I think groups and organisation are important to people is because they make us stronger. For example, football team plays better than one player. Another example is the ancient hunters. At old times people gathered in order to get food and survive in severe conditions. It was impossible for one man to kill a big animal, but when people gathered in groups their chances increased. Scientists say that people survived because they lived together and supported each other.
	For the reasons, which I mentioned above, I believe groups and organisations play an essential role in our life. Moreover, people's evolution would not be possible without them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/391-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-165-governments-should-spend-as-much-money-as-possible-on-developing-or-buying-computer-technology",
Essay 1541:
	Man, through the ages has undergone many changes from the time when he depicted a herd of mammoths on the walls of a cave to nowadays when he can chat with anyone across the sea by use of modern means of communication. Some people think that in today's world government should spend more money on computers. However, others think that it is inappropriate and the government should spend more money on food and shelters for poor people, medicine, education, etc. These two options are very different and controversial. But I think that developing computer technology brings people more advantages than they think it does.
	First of all, humankind nowadays more and more depends on computers. We often do not suspect the presence of computers around us. For example, when we withdraw money from cash machines, get some gasoline on the gas station and pay with our credit cards in the stores. So, nowadays computer technology plays an essential role in our everyday life. Second, computer technology brings more job opportunities. For a country, the computer technology means power, knowledge and constant development. In addition to those practical benefits, the development of computer technology brings a lot of money to the country.
	From the other side, the government should not forget about poor people, who can not afford computers but need food and shelters. However, I think that computers help people gain more knowledge and experience and find a job to provide food and home for his family. So, basically, computers give people the opportunity to reach their goals and be innovative.
	To sum up, I think that computer technology gives people many benefits including the opportunity to improve one's knowledge and be more self-confident, persistent and experienced in this world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/390-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-164-most-experiences-in-our-lives-that-seemed-difficult-at-the-time-become-valuable-lessons",
Essay 1542:
	From my everyday experience and observation, I have to agree with the statement that our present experiences become valuable lessons for the future. Someone said that today's problems will be the best experience in the future. Below I will give some examples to support my position.
	First of all, I want to say that obstacles make people stronger. By overcoming difficulties people gain priceless and essential knowledge and experience. If one has to struggle with a disease he becomes stronger maybe not in a physical way but in a mental way. A person becomes more patient, more self-confident and more attentive. These qualities will help him to win his disease.
	Success has nothing to do with luck. People have to work hard in order to reach their goals. They face challenges and failures and often they lose. However, people do not give up. They use their previous experience and knowledge to try again and again. I think that difficulties teach us very valuable lessons. Only a man who understands this fact and knows how to use it in the future can succeed. Failures bring us wisdom and new experience.
	Finally, between a prudent and imprudent person, the main difference is their experiences and wit. A person learns a lot from the experiences he/ she went through the life. So experiences and previous mistakes help a person to become a successful one. To err is human but an intelligent person always learns from these mistakes and avoid these mistakes in future .  
	Personally, I always try to analyse my mistakes and make conclusions. If I am not succeeded I know that next time I will avoid these mistakes and do my best.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/389-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-163-parents-or-other-relatives-should-make-important-decisions-for-their-children",
Essay 1543:
	Parents are in most cases our first teachers and friends. From my everyday experience, I have to agree with the statement that important decisions should be made by our parents or adult relatives. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support this statement.
	First of all, teenage children have the tendency to live in their own fantasies. They do not clearly understand the rules of a real life. When I was 18 years old I thought that the world was perfect and everything seemed to be simple. Teenagers are basically inexperienced, they aspire for independence and try to make their first steps towards freedom. I think that it is like starting to walk when a baby needs its parents for support. An independent life is a big and significant part in a person's life. So, my point is that it is very important to make this step right.
	Second of all, I think that parents have right to interfere in their children's lives. They need to know what kind of friends their children have and how children spend their spare time. For example, I had an eighteen years old friend who got really angry with his parents when they prohibited him from being a friend of a young man. Somehow his parents found out that that young man was occasionally taking drugs. That man was dead in a year because of drug abuse. After that accident, my friend thanked his parents for that interference. Finally, I think teenage children should be more open-minded with their parents. It will help them to make the right choice and avoid many mistakes.
	To sum up, I believe that young people should trust their parents because they wish their children only the best.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/388-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-162-some-people-like-to-travel-with-a-companion",
Essay 1544:
	Some people prefer to travel with a companion. However, other people like to travel alone. Personally, I think these two options have their advantages and disadvantages. I state my opinion on the following points.
	From the one side, travelling with a companion can bring many benefits. First of all, travelling with a companion is safer for several reasons. If travellers got lost in a strange city it is easier to find a way back. They can support and help each other if something happened and one of them is hurt. As for me, I prefer to travel with a companion if we travel by car. I think it is very dangerous to be on a strange road by one's self. One more reason to have a companion in a car is that they can change each other if one of them is tired. Second of all, travelling with a companion is more exciting and interesting. They can share all beautiful moments and new experiences. Finally, it helps to save some money because companions can share all expenses on gas, hotels, etc.
	From the other side, travelling alone can bring many benefits too. For example, one does not have to do things he does not want to. If one is tired he does not have to go to a bar with his friend only because he does not want to leave him alone. Moreover, sometimes I personally want to be alone and enjoy all beauty around me. I can relax and contemplate about my life sitting on a beautiful cliff.
	To sum up, I think travelling with a companion is better. However, sometimes I prefer to be alone by myself in a strange city. It gives me the feeling of adventure and I like that.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/387-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-161-only-people-who-earn-a-lot-of-money-are-successful",
Essay 1545:
	First of all, if a person earns a lot of money it means he or she has unique knowledge and experience and people want to pay for these. For example, a good lawyer is often paid a very high salary, because he or she has won many cases and people are ready to pay big money for his knowledge.
	Finally, money plays, maybe, unfortunately, an essential role in our modern life. So, people who earn a lot of money by working hard are considered to be successful. Maybe it sounds a little mercenary but I think that success must be encouraged financially otherwise it is not a success.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/386-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-160-why-do-you-think-some-people-are-attracted-to-dangerous-sports-or-other-dangerous-activities",
Essay 1546:
	Nowadays many people attracted to dangerous sports and other dangerous activities. From my everyday experience and observation, I think it is a result of dramatic changes in people's life.
	Just imagine at old times men had to hunt for food, fight, face many challenges and obstacles. Now our days are quite ordinary with a cup of coffee, doughnuts, computers, the desk table and TV. Basically, we do not have to struggle every day for our life and we have nutritious meals without any efforts. So, all we have to do is to contemplate our life. However, I must confess it can be boring. All improvements created for the past centuries made our life easier. Nowadays people look for adventure. They want to face a challenge, prove themselves something, conquer the world, etc.
	Personally, I think that every person sees different goals in doing dangerous activities. Some people want to add some stress and tension to their lives. From the other side, other people want to eliminate stress and tension gained from their everyday lives. They can forget about all troubles and leave them behind. I believe that dangerous activities give one freedom, happiness, feeling of independence and tone. People who take part in the games like formula one or try to visit the peak of the Mount Everest don’t do it for only fame or money but for the passion. As an example, Mother Merry Courie even after knowing the dangerous effects of radiation worked with it.  
	To sum up, I think that dangerous sports and activities are irreplaceable in our life. Without them out life would be miserable and boring.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/385-some-people-like-to-do-only-what-they-already-do-well",
Essay 1547:
	Some people prefer to take on challenges, explore new opportunities and embrace risks. Others, on the contrary, prefer to remain in their comfort zone and engage in no risky thing at all. Both groups of people have their reasons. Personally, I believe that taking on challenges and doing new things brings about more possibilities, improves the world and helps us enjoy our life to the fullest.
	History teaches that successful people are always risk-takers. They succeed and change the world because they are not afraid of failure and do novel things. This is why people have to walk out of their comfort zone and try new things. And their mentality to try new things makes them tolerant of failure and helps them reach a new height. For instance, Michael Faraday, Marie Curie, and Thomas Alva Edison, to name just a few, were highly curious and worked hard to find new answers when they could have been easily satisfied with one or two of their early inventions and work. Their work, risk-tolerance and dedication made them famous and helped change the world.
	On the contrary, people who take no risks at all and always do the same things, be it in their profession, hobby, or daily habits and choices, are less susceptible to failure because they have little to lose. In a sense, they are happy because they are not constantly trying to fight against all odds. For instance, people, who have always been in the same profession, scarcely changed their living place and never tried investing money in new ventures, often enjoy a relaxed lifestyle. Their mantra is that expect less, and regret less. 
	Personally, I think that trying and experiencing new things and embracing challenges help us constantly evaluate ourselves on the one hand and open up new potentials on the other hand. It also helps us set new goals and reach them. Life is too short to stay in one place, eat the same food and do the same thing over and over again. People need changes and challenges because they make our lives more meaningful, exciting and beautiful.
	To conclude, I believe that people's aspiration for learning new things, inventing something new and solving problems have developed our civilisation, and that is why we should not be afraid to fail and take on new challenges and risks. 
Essay 1548:
	Since time immemorial, some men have thought differently, accepted challenges to solve a problem or taken a different course of action and have come up with great inventions or novel discoveries as a result. Broadly speaking, there are two types of people: first - those who prefer to take risks and try and build new things; and second - those who do what they do best and are content with the regular results. I prefer the first type of people and always aspire to learn new things and take on challenges.
	In today's world, where there is an ocean of information available at our fingertips, remaining the same and doing the same things is pretty mundane and a matter of setback. Through technology, we are exposed to different cultures and global events. This motivates me to feed my hunger to know and learn more, to visit places that are daring and daunting to many, and take up challenges to solve problems. The Internet is also a great medium for learning and gaining skills and finding out our true potential. For instance, I was doing well in an investment bank but was always intrigued by the payments industry specifically the digital wallet space. I took a risk a year back and changed my career path in the Digital wallet industry. I am learning new things every day and enjoying my work to the fullest.
	To look at it from a different perspective, without taking the risk, we would not know what is lying beyond. There can be a rainbow of possibilities which might open up only if we take the first step forward. This does not mean that you would be successful on your first attempt and thus demands consistent pursuit. To supplement this with an example, a friend of mine was stagnant in his career and was unhappy with his monotonous job. With the advice of friends he took risks and ventured into a new business. He realised that he was doing very good and took the business as a full-time career. Thus, according to me trying new things and taking calculated risks is always beneficial.
	To conclude, I believe that we are in this world to create and transform things from their present state to make the world a better place. While trying new things sharpens our creativity, it teaches us new skills as well. I prefer a life full of challenges, possibilities and excitement to having a banal and monotonous life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/384-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-158-some-universities-require-students-to-take-classes-in-many-subjects",
Essay 1549:
	From the one side, learning something in detail brings many benefits. First of all, people gain more knowledge and experience in this area. So, after graduation, they are well prepared for their further career in this field. Second, they do not spend their precious time on other subjects. This gives them the opportunity to focus on one subject.
	From the other side, people who specialise in many subjects have more options to choose from. For example, if a person does not make a decision about what he is going to do after graduation it is a very good chance for him to try many fields of study and make the right decision. In addition to this practical benefit, a person has the opportunity to extend his range of interests, his communication skills and have better conceptions of things around. Also, a person has a better chance to choose what he really likes to do and make self-realization.
	To sum up, I think that every person should have a chance to choose. Does he want to specialise in one subject or he wants to take classes in many subjects?
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/383-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-157-staying-in-one-place-or-moving-in-search-of-another-place",
Essay 1550:
	It seems like the world is becoming smaller and smaller almost by the minutes. When I was a child I could not imagine to meet someone from another part of the planet. However, now I have a few friends from Africa, I can meet many Chinese people on the streets, have dinner at a Mexican restaurant, buy some delicious cookies at a cafe run by the French. It is really wonderful and amazing to see people from all over the world, communicate and work with them. I agree with those people who move a number of times throughout their lives. However, I believe that people who spend their entire lives in one place have many advantages too. First of all, I will focus on the reasons why I support the idea of moving and then I will move on to analysing the opportunities that people have staying at one place.
	Personally, I think that the first and most obvious reason to move from one place to another is to see the world. Of cause, this can be obtained by travelling. Nevertheless, travelling does not give the opportunity to immerse into traditions, customs and just the way of life of the country. It is like seeing beautiful looking boots on a show-window and does not try them on to see if they are comfortable.
	The second reason for moving is the opportunity to gain new experience and knowledge. One can meet new people and new friends, extend one's range of interests. Also, one can find a better job, life conditions and even climate. For example, my husband like the warm and sunny weather. So his dream is to live here in Texas a half of the year and move to Australia for another half of the year to catch warm months. One more example, my aunt does not feel good in sultry and humid weather. So she had to move several times to find a place where she feels comfortable.
	From the other side, this way of life has some disadvantages. For instance, it is difficult to make a good career if one is constantly moving. Of cause, it does not concern celebrities on their tours. Also, it is not good for children because they will have to change their schools a few times. Staying in one place has a plenty of advantages too. I must confess that I am closer to the people who do not move much. I prefer to have a permanent home with my old and favourite things, have a dog and a beautiful view from the window.
	In conclusion, I think that every person is always looking for something better than he already has. So, if people live in one place through their entire lives it means that they are looking for something else.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/382-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-156-grades-encourage-students-to-learn",
Essay 1551:
	From my everyday experience and observation, I can stand that grades are very good indicators of knowledge. For several reasons that I will mention bellow, I believe that grades encourage students to learn.
	First of all, grades show students' knowledge. If a person gets a high grade on an exam it means that he understands that subject very well. Otherwise, if a student gets a low grade on an exam it means that he does not understand it completely. Personally, when I get a lower grade on an exam then I expected I know that I could be better prepared. So, next time I will spend more time and efforts to fix my lack of knowledge and do my best on the exam. In this case, low grades encourage me to learn more. I try to analyse my mistakes and avoid them next time. Also, I try to arrange my time more effectively. I know exactly that I can do better than that, so I collect all my strength and focus on the incoming exam. It is a new goal or obstacle that one should overcome in order to continue his path. When finally I get a higher grade on an exam I feel satisfaction and I am proud of myself. I think it is a great feeling. I feel stronger, more self-confident and patient. I think these qualities are essential for a person who wants to achieve something and succeed in the future.
	Second, students have some kind of competition with each other for higher grades. When a student gets a higher grade then another one, the second student asks himself: "Why do not I have this grade? Is it something wrong with me? Is he better than me?" I think every student at least one time asked himself this question.
	To sum up, I think there is no doubt that grades encourage students to learn, gain more experience, knowledge, be more self-confident and persistent. Moreover, I am sure that these small victories will help students to win and succeed in the future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/381-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-155-face-to-face-communication-is-better-than-other-types-of-communication",
Essay 1552:
	Humankind, through the ages, has undergone many changes from the time when people communicated only face-to-face to nowadays when a person has in use many types of communication means. Some people still prefer to use face-to-face communication despite many other sometimes more convenient ones such as phone, mail, e-mail and fax. I think to continue this essay it is essential to clarify what kind of conversation we are talking about.
	For example, if people are negotiating it is very important to have a face-to-face communication. It is very important to see during a negotiation how one's opponent is moving, is he nervous or relaxed, what he is doing, etc. Scientists say that the body language and facial gestures can say many things about a person, his strong and weak sides, his traits, manners and even habits. To know what kind of man one is dealing with is an essential aspect in negotiation. Many managers prefer to have face-to-face conversations with the future employees. So, in this case, they see how a person behaves.
	From the other side, if I need to notify my bank that I am going to close an account I do not want to spend my time driving there, waiting for my turn and talking with a representative. It is easier for me just to call or e-mail them. It saves my time and my bank's too.
	To summarise, from my opinion all important issues better be discussed in face-to-face conversation. It will eliminate many further misunderstandings and bring only benefits to both sides.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/380-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-154-dancing-plays-an-important-role-in-a-culture",
Essay 1553:
	Throughout the human history, dancing has always been an important part of our culture, society and ritual. This is considered as one of the most effective and ancient ways of communication and people all over the world have their traditional dancing styles that not only reflect their unique way of traditions but also their history and culture. I quite agree that dancing plays a very crucial role in a culture.
	If we look back to the history, dancing was a form of entertainment and an excellent outline of arts in all civilisations. It was even a way of performing ritual acts in many civilisations. The main reason it presents the culture of a society is because it is a fascinating combination of different forms of arts including music, songs, costumes, vibrant colours, performance and story. Each of these art forms presents a unique identity of a nation and thus when they are combined together, they become the icon of a nation. If we observe the art forms used in a dancing performance, we are sure to get a very vivid impression of a particular society and their way of life.  
	Again, the dancing has many forms and it varies from civilisation to civilisation. Even a small tribe who has different cultural aspects has a different way of body movements, costumes and music while performing dances. Thus dancing also teaches us about the past history and traditions. For instance, ancient dancing that used the body and facial painting, quite primitive costumes and body movements are totally different than the modern dancing and both of them represents two different periods, civilisations and cultures.
	Finally, people’s presentation of happiness, joy, sadness, prayer, story and purposes through different forms of dancing is an excellent means of conveying human feelings and probably a very ancient mean of communication. As communication is the primary way of expressing culture and tradition, dancing plays a vital role in doing so.   
	To sum up, dancing is always a part of our history, tradition and culture and it helps keep people's traditions alive through the ages.
Essay 1554:
	Dancing is one of the ancient means of communication. People of every country have their own national music and dances. In old times people performed special rituals to make bad spirits go away and ask gods for fertile soil, good harvest, health and good weather. So, dancing plays an important role in a culture. Moreover, dancing of a particular country reflects its traditions, customs and history. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support my answer.
	First of all, the reason why dancing of a particular country is so unique is because many art forms are put together. People need music, costumes, singers to perform, players and of cause dancers. Each of these art forms is unique and singular for every country. In old times people gathered to celebrate or mourn and every occasion had its own music and costumes. For example, ancient tribes painted their faces with ugly and strange patterns, put on colourful clothes and make strange movements around the fireplace.
	Secondly, dancing is a combination of body movements that are peculiar to every nation. People of different nations have different bodily movements because dancing is one of the first means of communication. People differently express their feelings such as happiness, sadness, joy and sorrow through movements of their bodies. Every country has a different famous dancing style that represents its culture and custom. The traditional dancers wear dresses according to the country’s own heritage and this costume is a part of the tradition of the country too.
	To sum up, I think that dancing keeps people's traditions alive through the ages.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/379-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-153-what-are-some-other-reasons-that-people-work",
Essay 1555:
	First of all, self-contentment and self-realization are two important factors people work even though they have sufficient money. These kinds of people work to invent something new and try to satisfy their unquenchable thrust for knowledge. Their curiosity, hard work and talent drive them to invent something new that helps millions of others throughout the ages. Scientists, artists, mathematicians, astronomers and explorers throughout the history have done so to make this world a better place. No doubt some of them had personal ambitions, but self-contentment and curiosity were the main driving forces for them to work hard.
	Second, saving for the future, both for their old age and for the future generation, is another reason people work. Someone who has a lot of money cannot guarantee that it will remain the same for ages. Thus many people work to save for the rainy days and the make sure that their future generation will have better standards of life. Further working on something that we enjoy ensures far more quality time than being idle. Thus many of us work because we enjoy what we do. Money is not the primary motivation for working in this case.
	Finally, doing something better or helping other is another important reason many of us work. If we look back in the history, we will find numerous famous people who left their conform zone and worked for the betterment of others. They were selfless people who could have easily accumulated wealth but instead they have vowed to help others.
	In conclusion, self-contentment, curiosity and selflessness of many are the three important reasons we have a different world than we had in the primitive ages. Some people work to save for the future while others to help others and to fulfil self-realizations.
Essay 1556:
	First of all, people who work for self-realization like their job. Money is not important for them, they need satisfaction. I believe that this kind of people makes our evolution and history. They aspire after new inventions and discoveries overcoming all obstacles in their ways. I think that these people are very interesting because they know a lot, read many books and have their own life experience. Of course, they need money for some essential needs such as food and cloth, but they do not need them for luxury houses or expensive furnishings. Many scientists are people who devote their lives to new knowledge and discoveries. There are pieces of evidence of lots of opulent inventors and scientist who loves their work more than anything else and have devoted their lives to the work they loved. Their primary reason for working was their passion for the work.
	Second of all, I believe that people need self-realization. It gives them the opportunity to contribute in world's history and share their knowledge and experience with other people. I think it helps them to realise that they are needed by humankind and will not be forgotten. This is priceless.
	To sum up, I think that people's aspiration after self-realization is the main reason why we have now good medicine, different means of communications, many devices to make our lives easier, etc.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/378-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-152-describe-a-custom-from-your-country-that-you-would-like-people-from-other-countries-to-adopt",
Essay 1557:
	In our modern and stressful world, we often forget about our customs and traditions. The modern technologies and easy of digital entertainment have occurred even faster. However, I think that people should keep their traditions because they help to remember our forefathers and value the beautiful moments we have in our lives.
	In my country, we have a great custom called "Maslenica". It is a holiday, which is celebrated at the end of the winter. Many people gather on the biggest square of the city and see of the winter. They say to the winter good-bye and ask the spring to change the winter. They celebrate the beginning of the life when everything starts to grow.
	People on this holiday baked pancakes and treated each other with them. Also, many people gathered on the square and played different games. For example, the most well-known game "pulling a rope" subsists in that two teams pull a rope. The winner is the team would be whatever side has a longer rope. Other people crawl on the icy pole. People have fun at this holiday even if they just observe those games and do not participate.
	In conclusion, I am sure that "Maslenica" would benefit many countries all over the world. People have the opportunity to relax, leave their troubles and worries behind and have fun. Also, this holiday helps people to find out more about each other, communicate and meet new people. In addition to those practical benefits, "Maslenica" helps people to slow down their life pace and enjoy the present moments that are irreplaceable and beautiful.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/377-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-151-with-the-help-of-technology-students-nowadays-can-learn-more-information-and-learn-it-more-quickly",
Essay 1558:
	From my everyday experience and observation I can state several factors, which defend the statement that with the help of technology, students nowadays can learn more information and learn it more quickly.
	First of all, the latest inventions of humankind dramatically improved our life. Nowadays we can move from one place to another more quickly, we do not spend much time cooking, we have many different resources of information and means of communication. So, our life now is more dynamic and changeable. During our day we receive a huge amount of information and process it. Students at the same time have more resources to get the information they need. They can go to a library, the nearest bookstore, or borrow it from a friend or even download it from the Internet. I think It is great. Instead of waiting for one's turn to get a book in a library, one can print it from a file downloaded earlier. The great thing about it that one can print only those pages he is interested in and also make marks on the pages to mark important ideas.
	Another important aspect of this is the advantages of using the computer the greatest invention of the last century. Students do not have to spend their time by writing and re-writing many papers. It is really time-consuming. They just type information in and may use many useful features such as "copy", "paste", "delete", "save", etc. Also, sometimes students do not have to write down lectures because they already have them on their computers.
	The Internet plays an important role in our life now. We can communicate with the people who are in another part of the planet. We also can get the latest news very quickly. People can ask for a piece of advice or find different kinds of information on the Internet. Students can get their degree online, register for classes, communicate with professors, take tests and even listen to a lecture. I think the great part in it that students may more effectively arrange their time. They can get their task by e-mail and stay home to do it. It really saves time and makes studying more fun especially if a person has to work in order to pay his or her tuition.
	To summarise, I think that many last inventions improved students' life and allowed them to concentrate more on studying.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/376-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-150-if-you-could-create-a-new-holiday-what-person-or-event-would-it-honor",
Essay 1559:
	Every country has holidays. If I could create a new holiday it would be "Day of Health". I believe that many countries already have this day, but I think that my day will be more beneficial because it will be celebrated at the beginning of every month. In this essay, I will give the reasons and outline the benefits of this holiday.
	First of all, to celebrate this day people do not have to go to a restaurant or to a movie, but they will go to the nearest park and celebrate it by walking, jogging, line-skating or bicycling. Some people will go to a fitness centre or a pool. Smoking will be prohibited everywhere on this day. Also, this will be a day of healthy food, fresh squeezed juice and a lot of smiling faces. This day will inspire people with energy for the rest of the month.
	Second of all, people will be called to use their car as less as possible in order to prevent the air pollution and to keep air fresh. Every car has a large impact on the environment. People often drive their car to the nearest store to buy food when they can spend 5 minutes more and get there by foot or bicycle.
	Finally, "Day of Health" will help people to relax, to slow down the pace of their life. Life is very stressful these days. People are competing for a better job, companies and countries are competing for a market and business. So, this day will help people to enjoy the moments of their life, to leave their troubles behind and appreciate all they have.
	In summary, I believe my holiday would make people friendlier, healthier and happier.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/375-there-is-nothing-that-young-people-can-teach-older-people",
Essay 1560:
	Older people are generally believed to have better experiences and practical views about life than the young generation. Albeit that, I disagree with the view that young people have nothing to teach them.
	First of all, young people can adopt technology faster and they can teach their seniors how to use these technologies to improve lifestyle. For instance, I have noticed several times that my 10 years old nephew was teaching my grandfather how to use Facebook, how to operate a digital camera, where to search for a particular information on the internet and lots of such things. So obviously my grandfather learned from my nephew and there are such many technological aspects young people can teach the older ones.
	Secondly, youths know the changes and trends of the current world better than older persons and that’s something they can share with the aged people. For instance, my sister who is a sophomore shares numerous information with my father and aunt regarding the politics, social progress, roles of Government, policy changes etc. and to me, my sister seems to be well informed than my father and aunt regarding the current affairs.
	From my experience, I can see that older people have a better experience and they can advice what are the correct things to do. In certain sectors, like research, teaching, banking etc. they are performing far better than young employees. But the sectors where the innovation and hardworking are required, young people prone to do better.
	In my opinion, there are yet tonnes of things that the older people can learn from young people including technologies where the young people always excel than the elder generation.
Essay 1561:
	When it comes to learning, it can be learned from anyone- regardless of age, profession or race. Consequently, I totally disagree with the statement that young people can teach older people nothing. For several reasons, I think that young people can teach older people many things.
	First of all, young people intend to learn new things faster including the use of new technologies. Young people can always teach the older how to use technologies and those modern tools. Second, young people are more motivated. They aspire to succeed professionally which requires vast knowledge and experience these days. So, they try to acquire knowledge and experience from different sources like the Internet, books, newspaper, magazines and of course from conversations with other people. In terms of knowledge sharing, the young generation can always motivate and teach the older generation. In addition to this, youngsters bring many fresh ideas to the team they are working in. For example, when my friend was hired as a software developer, he surprised everybody with his energy, a bunch of new and fresh ideas about what could be done to improve the process. The fresh idea and innovation of young people are something older people can always learn from. He was the youngest member of the team but everybody listened to him and it was like a fresh air, an impulse, which made everyone work harder. Even the senior employees of this office learned from this young person.
	Finally, young people often know more about new technologies and how to use these. For example, my husband is 26 years old and he is a software developer So, he is often asked to deliver lectures for different companies and audience. Needless to say, the majority of people who attend those lectures are older than my husband and definitely, they can learn many things from the comparatively young person like my husband.
	To conclude, I think that young people have many things to teach older people. Moreover, people from every generation have something to learn from each other. People learn through their entire lives from the history, life experience, elders as well as from younger people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/374-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-148-high-schools-should-allow-students-to-study-the-courses-that-students-want-to-study",
Essay 1562:
	The question whether a high school should allow students to study the courses that students want to study is the one that is open for debate. Some people believe that students in high school should have the right to study the courses they like. However, other people disagree and stand that teenagers can not totally be sure what they like and what they need to know at their age. In this essay, I will analyse these points and present my view in favour of people who believe that some courses must be required to study by students.
	From the one side, having a chance to choose what one likes to study can bring many benefits. First of all, a student can be better prepared for the career he likes because he can spend more time studying what he is interested in. Second of all, students will learn with more enthusiasm because they will learn what they like.
	From the other side, teenagers often can not completely understand what they want to do in the future. So, given a chance to choose, they can choose classes, which are easy to learn and do not take much time to study. As a result of this after graduation, many students can be unprepared to enrol in universities and, of course, make careers. Personally, I think that some courses such as mathematics, literature, writing English must be required for studying by students. This will help them to gain more knowledge and experience, develop the ability to think logically, improve writing skills, etc. So, students will be better prepared for the real world and independence life.
	To sum up, I think that high school should have required courses because it is essential for a student to have a good base for the future life. Required courses, as a rule, are more complicated but they give the opportunity for students to extend their range of interests and help them to develop many important characteristics such as self-confident, persistent, patience, etc.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/373-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-147-children-should-begin-their-formal-education-at-a-very-early-age",
Essay 1563:
	People learn through their entire lives. Curiosity was always the basic characteristic of a human being. We always want to break limits and learn more. At this point, some people think that children should begin their formal education at a very early age and spend most of their time on school studies. This will help them to succeed in the future. However, for several reasons, which I will explain bellow, I think that children should not study at a very early age.
	Of course, children who begin to study at a very early age have more chances to succeed in the future. They gain more knowledge and experience which are priceless and valuable. In addition, studying more now they will give them the opportunity to perfect their knowledge in the future and become better professionals.
	However, I think that every child must have his or her childhood. Children should learn through playing and communication with their friends and parents. I think that such basic qualities as kindness, self-confidence and just a good sense of humour can not be gained from studying. Children should more time spend with their family, playing and learning with their parents. Imagine that a child instead of playing with his friends does his homework and feel exhausted and tired. Another important aspect of this is that children at their early ages need more exercise because at this age the development of their body is an essential aspect. Children, first of all, must be healthy.
	To sum up, I think that children should have their careless childhood with no responsibilities. Moreover, I am sure that playing helps them develop not only their bones and muscles but their ability to make decisions, analyse things, make conclusions, which is very good for their future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/372-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-146-businesses-should-do-anything-they-can-to-make-a-profit",
Essay 1564:
	Of cause a company may lose a part of its profit but the security of its clients must be in the first place. Otherwise, clients will switch to another company and never be back. For instance, a few years ago "Jonson & Jonson" produced a new type of painkillers. Unfortunately, this product was not tested properly. As a result of this, many people died and received injuries. The president of the company made a crucial decision to call back all painkillers from all distributors and pay to all injured customers for their treatment. It cost a lot of money for the company but it saved its image and clients. It was a very difficult decision, but the president of the company understood that it would cost him even more in the future because he would not be able to return clients' respect. Losing customers means for a company losing its profit.
	Second of all, in order to succeed in the modern world companies have to compete with each other. Many companies lose their profit decreasing prices on their products. They do not aspire for extra profit but for clients' satisfaction. Companies do it because they want their products sold and their customers satisfied. They offer discounts, free delivery, free service, free Internet access, good return service, etc. All these are done to make their old customers happy and attract new clients.
	To sum up, I think a company, which the only goal is profit will not succeed nowadays. Otherwise, companies that respect their clients and want to see them satisfied will make a fortune.
Essay 1565:
	It is believed that businesses people should use any kinds of ways in generating profit. I strongly disagree with the statement, as there should be some regulations and policies that business people should follow and the following essay will discuss it in details about it.
	To begin with, if business people are allowed to do anything they like in generating profits, then there would be a serious threat to the environment. Many companies and corporations are building projects based on their commercial senses, without assessing the impact of them to the surrounding areas. In many cases, there were a lot of energy companies that had demolished forest areas, which were the home to various kinds of endangered animals. Should there be no restrictions on these companies, the world will gradually lose its' biodiversities.
	And then, it is obvious that there should be a code of ethics and regulations in doing business. They are important for protecting customers from any inappropriate acts of business owners. It has been reported that in order to save production costs and to increase profit margins, a lot of manufacturing companies have used dangerous ingredients as a part of their production process. And then, some companies were hiring labours which were below the standard age and compensated them with minimum salary to reduce labour costs. These unhealthy practices would be a serious threat to many societies and communities.
	In conclusion, I personally disagree if people could do anything to make their business profit. Without the existences of business restrictions, law and policies, then it would generate a devastating problem for mankind, such as deforestation and human trafficking.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/371-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-145-people-should-read-only-those-books-that-are-about-real-events-real-people-and-established-facts",
Essay 1566:
	With the evolution of technological advancement, people’s interest in reading has dramatically reduced in some developing countries over the last few years. Some people argue that books having people autobiography, real stories and proven facts are more influential and have greater advantages. Others claim that people should encourage reading books irrespective of its type and category. I believe that reading is an important constituent of people’s lives and help them to increase their knowledge and information about various aspects of the worlds.
	There is no doubt that people’s observation and experiences in the form of books enable other people to draw their opinion on a particular thing, for instance, researchers are using established facts as a basis of their research to extract something new out of it as their finding. Furthermore, people can learn about various events of history that were important parts of their tradition and customs but are no longer practice in today’s world.
	Nowadays, people are more opted towards others activities than reading. Therefore, we should make attempts to create a conducive learning environment and motivate people to read books of their own choice. Parents and teachers can play a pivotal role in realising the importance of reading among children. In today’s competitive environment, individuals should focus to gain maximum knowledge and information on different subjects by reading books that cater multiple ideas and topics.
	To sum up, I would like to say that books have significant positive impact on people attitudes and behaviours. However, there is dire need to create perceptiveness about reading regardless of the type and subject of books. People should have freedom to select books based on their interest and liking.
Essay 1567:
	Some people think that fiction books have no use at all. They claim that people should read about real events that took place, real people, and established facts. I have to totally disagree with this statement. From my everyday experience and observation, I can stand that fiction, miracles and fairy tails are required in our life. For several reasons, which I will mention below, I believe that fiction books play an essential role in our life.
	First of all, it is kind of difficult to imagine a six-year-old child reading about politics or history with the real facts that are not always pleasant. I think that children need miracles and Santa Claus because the real world is too complicated for them. They are too innocent and inexperienced to know the real facts and understand what is a real life about. In addition, I am sure that making a child read only non-fiction books can result in shock.
	Second of all, following this statement about refusing from reading books about fiction events we also should refuse from festivals, parades, and celebration such holidays as Halloween because most of the characters there are fictional. Moreover, comic books will disappear as well as animated films and fiction movies. The disadvantage of non-fiction lies in the facts that nothing happens to excite the mind and spirit. From the other side, fiction provides a great slope for a mind to think creatively.
	In conclusion, I think that people need miracles. We can not be satisfied with the only naked truth. Humankind must believe in something and this belief helps people break limits and make new inventions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/370-it-is-sometimes-said-that-borrowing-money-from-a-friend-can-harm-or-damage-the-friendship",
Essay 1568:
	In addition, I believe that when friends lend and borrow money from each other it means that they trust each other. However, I cannot disagree with the fact that money often can cause the end of the friendship. For example, a person, who borrowed money from his or her friend and did not return it, will try to avoid any contacts with the second person. At the same time, a person who lent the money to his or her friend and did not get it back will have more likely an unpleasant feeling about the situation too. As a result, friends will fall apart.
	In conclusion, I think that borrowing money and returning it will help to keep friends together.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/369-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-143-attending-a-live-performance-is-more-enjoyable-than-watching-the-same-event-on-television",
Essay 1569:
	Observing some events in real time in person has very different impact on human nature than watching recorded or broadcasted version. Liking and disliking vary from person to person, some people are delighted to attend events in a live show and others prefer to watch them while sitting in their bedroom. In my opinion, live programs are more recreational, socialising and provide chances to meet favourite actors or heroes and even one can get autographs.
	Firstly, while attending live events we can enjoy more because of charged audience and an amusing environment. Audience clap, dance, shouts and narrates slogan to warm the pleasant environment. At the end of the event, we can meet the distinguished people and even can take their pictures with you.
	Secondly, these recreational shows gather multidimensional joys and happiness with them. We schedule the programs with our family and friends and go to some place with food and cameras.  Live shows are the source of socialisation, we can meet our friend and even we can make new friends. The phenomenon of silent learning works, we learn few new things without effortful intention to learn that valuable quality. We may save our sweet memories with people around us by taking video shots.
	On the other hand, to join real-time shows are expensive, we have to spend a reasonable amount of money to join it. Moreover, we have to manage time to execute our attendance.  While watching these programs when they are broadcasted it is inexpensive and one can manage his daily routine by working around.
	In conclusion, we should join live programs to make our self more happy and cheerful but not at the cost of duty and disturbance in daily routine. Before choosing the option of these programs one should consider that expense   of tickets should not disturb the monthly budget of the family.
Essay 1570:
	The issue whether to attend a live performance or enjoy watching the same event on TV is a controversial one. However, in my opinion, an intermediate position can be taken. I base my suggestion on the following points. But before I begin I think I need to clarify what kind of live performances I like. I mostly attend concerts and prefer to see sports events on TV.
	First of all, watching an event on TV can bring many advantages. One can relax and settle in his favourite chair, eating a cake or having a drink. One does not have to spend time driving to the place where an event takes place. Also, he does not spend money on a ticket. Moreover, sometimes sitting in front of a TV set one is likely to see more interesting parts of a show more clearly with the help of an operator. Second, the weather is no longer of that importance. He does not care that it is rainy or chilly outside.
	From the other side, attending a live performance has many advantages too. Firstly, people can enjoy the songs as they are in a real time. Personally, I like to attend a live performance because they give much positive energy and many beautiful moments. Frankly, watching a show at home does not give me that. One can enjoy loud music, the closeness of his favourite stars and shout the songs he likes.
	In summary, I prefer to attend live performances in the case of a concert and show. However, in contrast, I prefer to watch sports events on television at home.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/368-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-142-modern-technology-now-allows-rapid-and-uncontrolled-access-to-and-exchange-of-information",
Essay 1571:
	It is true that with the rapid development of technology, people have unlimited access to various information and exchange database freely these days. Despite all benefits, some people believe that it is harmful and dangerous for our communities. To a certain point I would agree that it could be dangerous, but if we have proper control over technological use then it would be useful from many aspects.
	On one hand, the advance development of modern technology has allowed people to gain access to so many websites, database, and information hub and to exchange them. All governments and companies are using computer technology to store and maintain their confidential information these days. Certain people believe that the development is dangerous for our societies as it could be misused for any crime activities. For example, a computer hacker might have access to a bank information system and use a person's credit card number. In another case, the hacker might steal top secret information from the government and sell them to the terrorists.
	Despite all the treats, the easy access to information system has brought countless benefits to the humankind. Firstly, with the development of the internet technology, scientists could effectively perform their research. By having access to so many websites, it has saved a lot of the scientists’ time when they have to investigate things, rather than to go to the library and search for books and journals. Secondly, with the easy access to information system, it also helps students in learning new things. In the past, students only got information through books, but these days they can learn from various platforms. For example, when they want to learn new things, they can also learn from another format such as video. There are thousands of free video websites such as YouTube and Vimeo, where they can access them and find some informative lessons. Having central databases of citizens is a great way for the government to tackle illegal immigration, crime and social problems.  
	In conclusion, to a certain extent, I would agree that the easy access to various information and exchange of database could be harmful to the humankind. However, I also believe that this development also brings a lot of benefits to the societies, as scientists have become more effective in doing their researches. I personally believe that the government should have a strict regulation about the access and design a proper control system which would prevent the misuse of the information.
Essay 1572:
	With the invention and widespread use of computers, mobile devices, the internet and other latest technologies people can now access to a range of information very easily. The communication technology enables them to contact anyone and exchange the information they desire. Though many people consider it as a great uplift towards a flexible and advanced era, many people believe that it a serious threat for us. I completely disagree with the idea that the disadvantages and threat of free information exchange and communication outweigh the advancement it has bought for us.   
	First of all, there are very few people who might misuse the easily accessible information and can try to do harms to others. But consider the rest of the mass people who form more than 99.99% of the total population who would access information to enhance their knowledge, contact with people they care and contribute towards making the society a better place. Students, research people, teachers, professionals or even kids and mums access a various source of information for their daily needs and blocking their access from the fear of an unknown hacker or terrorist is like locking us at home 24 hours because there might be an accident on the road.
	In reality, the facility to exchange information and easy communication made it possible to shorten the distance of the world. The distance learning, online education, online business, email and websites like Wikipedia have made it possible for someone in a distant village to grab the potential to contribute to a greater enhancement. The sensitive data are always protected by the authority and they spend a huge amount to ensure the data protection and misuse. No matter how lucrative it sounds, hacking a bank’s website and getting information about the customers’ financial statement is as tough as walking to the middle of an ocean.
	Whenever we refer to the term modern world its underlying meaning refers technological advancement, information availability and flexibility of communication. Restricting the access and exchange of information for fear of danger is like living in the cave in fear of the earthquake. The technological advancement has made the world a better place to live in, has increased the transparency of government and authority and has enhanced the potential for more advancement and flexibility.
Essay 1573:
	It is a fact that with advanced technologies, we could easily access and exchange information about an individual or an organisation through the internet. Although some people think that it is beneficial, others believe that it brings more threat to every individual's safety. The following essay will discuss it in details.
	It is true that we are living in a high technology era, where as information about persons, companies, states and even countries are stored online. With this technology, people could easily obtain and swap information with others. For certain people, they believe this advanced technology is beneficial for them, as it has assisted them in accomplishing their projects. For example, when a secret agent needs to investigate a murder case, he might need some personal information about the victim's relatives and friends. And with online technology, he could easily get all the required information, which will help him in solving the case.
	Despite all the benefits, uncontrolled access and exchange of information have some negative effects on our lives. It is reported that it has been frequently used by certain people for criminal activities. One of the common examples is about credit card database. Many credit card pins are stolen and used inappropriately. And then, sometimes an individual database is also hacked, as his personal database is used for any illegal acts by the hacker himself.
	In conclusion, to a certain point, I would agree that easy access and exchange to information have some advantages for our lives, but we should never forget that it has many disadvantages as well. I personally believe that there should be some clear regulation about it and the government should monitor it strictly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/367-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-141-many-children-are-forced-to-stay-at-school-and-study-subjects",
Essay 1574:
	It is often said that students should study at the school for some certain subjects and this will be good for their future. Another point is that those kids may interrupt their school work and be allowed to get a work early when they leave school. The viewpoint that students have to be forced to have the class at school is valid.
	One reason for this is that schools provide a plenty of academic knowledge to students and it is possible to enlarge students’ knowledge background when they are young and it is also a good method to force students to focus on their school work and this conditions might avoid students to spend their time to do bad things. In Addition, some educations at school are useful for their life such as students might learn professional skills or knowledge that they may have more opportunities to find a job in their future. For example, employers prefer to hire  employees who have a higher degree and own a lot of professional skills and knowledge in Taiwan.
	On the other hand, it can be argued that children should leave school early to get a job because they can be sure their interesting and learn social skills through having a job. Furthermore, they can get much experience of the society which experience can’t obtain at school and it is possible to encourage children how to manage the money that they’ve earned and try to independent.
	Even though there are some advantages of leaving school early to find a job, I would say that kids should study the certain subjects at the school since the disadvantages are pointed out and because there exist so many ways to train children to learn independent and social skills.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/366-best-way-to-stay-fit-and-healthy-is-to-lead-normal-life",
Essay 1575:
	There is a famous saying 'health is wealth', and admittedly, good health leads to personal satisfaction, career success and not to mention a healthy mind. With increasing awareness about health issues, people are now concerned about their fitness and focus on various diet plans, exercise and medical checkups to remain fit. However, some believe that the recipe for a healthy life is just to live a normal life. I personally believe that we need a balanced diet, regular exercise and periodic medical checkups to have a truly sound mind and body.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/365-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-139-are-computers-essential-features-of-modern-education",
Essay 1576:
	The world has witnessed many rapid changes in almost all areas including education, after the invention of the computer and this tool has become an essential part in many new sectors. The education sector is no exception and the modern education system is so deeply rooted in the computer and internet technology that without these two, modern educations would become meaningless.
	Who could have thought only 40 years ago that computer would be used in rural classrooms, modern online based distance education system and in medical colleges? In fact, the modernization in education was possible because of the invention and widespread uses of the computer and internet technology.
	From physics to aeronautical engineering, chemistry to modern arts, computers are used in everywhere. A complex chemical reaction can be simulated using a computer, the trainee pilots can simulate the real flight in a computer system and even the students in fine arts can learn the digital arts which are created using computers. The changes in education and uses of computers have become a common phenomenon nowadays and a school without a computer lab is considered a primitive one. Math, Physics, Chemistry, engineering, medical, business & commerce subjects can all be better taught using computers. Even arts subjects can be better taught using computers. Subjects that directly involve computers like computer science, computer engineering, electrical engineering, graphics designing etc. can’t be conducted without the help of computers.
	There are still some aspects of education that require human touches and involvements and can’t be done using a computer. For instance, teaching morality, discipline and responsibility are done by teachers apart from delivering lectures on subject matters and that can’t be done using machines. A student learns many more aspects from the teachers and classmates and that can’t be done using computers. The creativity and leadership quality are two other aspects that are nurtured and inspired by humans and machine can’t take responsibilities for these issues.
	In summary, computers can enhance the scope of better education in almost all of the subjects except teaching some values and moralities of life that can only be taught by humans.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/364-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-138-education-overseas-has-become-more-accessible",
Essay 1577:
	One of the greatest advantages for young students to study overseas is that they learn to be independent. Having to cook, clean, manage a budget, take care of themselves, pay bills and take important decisions, they become self-reliance and this instils good quality among them. Often they have to work part-time to make ends meet, and this impresses upon them the importance of work and money management.
	Another important factor of studying in a foreign country is that these children will be exposed to different cultures and diverse ways of thinking. They will become more open-minded and tolerant and are likely to become more adaptable individuals. Getting exposes to different situations, they would become better decision-makers. One of the main motives for sending young people abroad to study is that it enhances their employment prospects. In my experience of living in foreign countries and speaking to various youths, it seems that a foreign education is regarded as something desirable and helpful in getting a decent job. A degree from Britain, for example, is seen as being of a higher standard than one from a developing country. Furthermore, living in a foreign country may lead to fluency in a second language, which is another selling point for prospective employers. In addition, many companies are keen to recruit people with a global outlook.
	There are a few drawbacks, however. For instance, without parental supervision, the new found freedom children experience may lead to harmful practices such as drug abusing and rampant lifestyle. Reluctance or inability to reintegrate into their mother country is another one that is often considered as a negative effect of this trend.
	To sum up, it can be seen that the advantages of studying abroad for children are more numerous than the disadvantages. Of course a lot depends on the age of the child, but I believe that for most teenagers it would be a positive experience.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/363-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-137-some-people-prefer-to-work-for-the-same-company",
Essay 1578:
	In the modern workplace, there is no longer the attitude that ‘a job is for life’. Nowadays, many people take the option to change jobs, while others prefer not to. In my essay, I will explore the good and bad points of the above attitudes. One of the main benefits of staying in one job is security. Changing employer often means a period of instability, where one may have to think about moving house, or temporarily losing a steady source of income. Staying in one job means these problems are avoided.
	Another benefit of not changing occupation is that one is able to gain a lot of experience and expertise in his specific profession, thus enhancing job security. One’s company may recognise their loyalty and reward their service. On the other hand, those who often change jobs may be seen as unreliable, lacking in experience and employers might be reluctant to hire and invest training in them.
	However, there are arguments in favour of changing job frequently. One is that a worker improves his employability. Working in several different jobs often means that the individual has more skills. Such people are seen as more dynamic and versatile.
	Another benefit of changing jobs frequently is that one never gets stuck in a rut. From my own experience, I got bored when I spent too long in a job. Following this, the quality of my work would suffer. I also believe that employers generally don’t tend to greatly reward loyalty or commitment. Increased wages and promotion are often easier to attain by changing jobs.
	Overall, it can be said that the disadvantages of changing jobs are the advantages of staying put, and vice versa... In my opinion, I feel that changing jobs every once in a while is of more benefit.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/362-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-136-using-a-computer-every-day-can-have-more-negative-than-positive-effects",
Essay 1579:
	Nowadays, young children use computers so frequently that some even use them more than 10 hours every day. Although some people believe that the phenomenon has no harmful effects on young children, I agree that the disadvantages of it outweigh the advantages.
	To begin with, the benefits of using a computer are widely admitted. As high-tech tools, computers provide children with diversified methods to help them learn efficiently. Animated web pages and incentive applications are designed for teaching and inspiring them to access more information  and that process expands their horizons as a result. Also, children are attracted easily by the interactions in educational computer programs, so that they absorb knowledge effectively in a lively atmosphere, and it proves to be welcomed by both parents and teachers.
	On the other hand, negative impacts of using a computer every day need to be emphasised. Since young children have only acquired inadequate self-control, they are likely to be addicted to computers, video games in particular. Spending too much time on computer games, children will lose their interest in studying as well as communicating with their peers. Moreover, their values and perspectives of the real world might not be well developed once they fall in love with the virtual world, which will have a detrimental influence on their future. Again, using computers for long hours has both physical and psychological effects that would be even more devastating for young children.  
	In conclusion, though computers are helpful to youngsters’ study, the adverse effects they bring weigh more. It is acceptable that youngsters use computers two or three times a week, but parents still need to be aware of the unhealthy information on the internet and video games addiction of their offspring.
Essay 1580:
	The computer is considered as a wonderful invention of the modern world and somehow young people are more attracted to using computers than the older people. Like any other technology, computers have their own demerits if overused or negatively used, but I completely disagree that using a computer every day can have more adverse effects than positive effects for young children.
	Young children who play games more than 7-8 hours or do unproductive tasks in a computer are actually bringing more negative points that learning the miracle machines. But think about a child who learns programming, play games, learn advanced computing 3-4 hours a day would become a great computer professional someday.
	In conclusion, if the young people are spending their time for entertainment purposes in front of a computer, then s/he  better be utilised in somewhere else. But someone with the determination to learn the computing and advancing his/her knowledge about computer software, hardware and networking would become a skilled person for the upcoming future. Hence the young people should be encouraged to use computers daily to enhance their knowledge while taking precaution so that this habit does not affect their health.
Essay 1581:
	As the role of technology has been very crucial in everyone's life, children have been accustomed to the computers. One may say using computers will give great knowledge to computers or the more negatives than positives. I believe using computers can have more negative effects than advantages because the computer makes children lazy and violent.
	If the children become addicted to computers, they will become lazy in their life and they will no longer concentrate on other important things they have to do. Day by day, as the computer steals their valuable time, they will not show an interest in studies and outdoor games. As a result, they will not only become lazy but also they will not be physically sound. For example, my father bought me a personal computer when I finished my 10th grade because I had got A+ in my 10th grade public exams. As I become more habituated to a computer, I became indolent to do my other activities such as studies, sports and the other extra routines. Consequently, my rank dropped to A- in my 12th standard. If anyone tried to take away my computer from me, I used to behave violently.
	Kids act unnaturally if they want to own these electronic machines. This creates abnormal behaviours in children. In future, they will not be social. On the other hand, their important role in their schools will get damaged if this continuous.
	Another major disadvantage using computers is, children may use adult sites (above 18 years old sites) instead of using a computer for beneficial reasons. For example, today almost in every website, there are ads which promote dating services, adult contents, etc. These ads and then the time spent on those websites by a kid are enough to spoil a good child.
	My conclusion is that the parents should either supervise their children while using computers, internet and encourage them to use it for benefits or do not allow their children to use computers. Otherwise, their children will have to face a lot of problems.
Essay 1582:
	These days the computer has become a part of many families. Though it is useful for every member of the family in day to day life, its dark side is more dangerous for the children.
	Moreover, spending more time on a computer could build an isolated attitude that a child does not learn to socialise. Computers support interesting games and videos so a child would prefer to be in front of a computer as much as possible and enjoy them. Perhaps this could be one of the reasons that more and more kids suffer from eyes problems these days. Medical science has proved that a person blinks his eyes lesser time that required while using the computer. Apart from eyes, it could harm our backside as well. While sitting in front of the computer people do not realise that they are constantly sitting in the same position for longer hours which results in back pain problem.
Essay 1583:
	Over the past few decades, the world has been revolutionised with computerisation. In spite of, this trend being a boon to the sectors like Information Technology, Globalization and Networking. It has now become a serious deterrent for young children. This essay will discuss its negative impacts on them.
	The primary reason is that children are exposed to several health hazards due to over indulgence in the use of computers. Most of the kids nowadays have eyesight problems. This is because of too much exposure to the video display units. For illustration, a child gets more fascinated by playing computer games than outdoor games which naturally makes them idle for longer hours.
	The reason stated above sows seeds for another connected problem,” lack of physical activity”. The childhood days are meant to be spent in a hale and healthy way by involving in lots of energetic activities but this has been changed completely with the advent of computers.
	Further moving on the same track, a lot more children are now being addicted to social networking sites like Facebook and Twitter. This is not all, they have become more dependent on the internet for everything and are likely losing their thinking ability. For instance, the younger generation prefers surfing for the details they require for an academic task like assignment which may have been given to test their imagination and cognitive skills.
	In a nutshell, It is believed that computers are likely causing more detrimental effects like vision, physical activity and more dependency on the internet. Thus, in my opinion, the ideal solution for this could be taken by parents by reducing the usage time of computer and restricting few sites on the internet to make use of technology in a constructive way.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/361-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-135-some-movies-are-serious-designed-to-make-the-audience-think",
Essay 1584:
	It is a fact that various types of movies are produced by film-makers. While some films are made for the purpose of light entertainment, others are produced to make their viewers think and predict. Out of the various genres of films, I personally like the serious one, and the following essay will discuss in details.
	To begin with, there are various genres of films produced these days, and each of them is made for different purposes. In the modern world, the demand for relaxing and fun movies is increasing, therefore many producers are creating drama comedy films, such as ‘Home Alone’ or ‘American Pie’, and others are making cartoon movies such ‘Shrek’ or ‘Kung Fu Panda’. Although some people might criticise that the quality of these films is average or below standard, but the main purpose of the producer is to refresh and entertain their viewers.
	On the other hand, some film producers are creating serious films. These films are designed to make their audiences think and give full attention to the plot of the films. If the viewers lose their concentration or got some distraction, they will found some difficulties in understanding the story. Movies that are classified into this genre are mystery, horror and war movies. Some examples of these films are ‘Sherlock Holmes’, ‘Enemy of the States’ or ‘The Games’.
	In conclusion, it is true that each movie is produced for different purposes. Some movies are produced for pure entertainment, while others are made for a specific purpose. I personally prefer serious films, since there are many things that you can get and learn from watching these films.
Essay 1585:
	Different people like different types of movies. Some people like to watch a movie that makes them think. They prefer movies with a murder investigation or some kind of intricate plot. Other people prefer movies that make them laugh. Personally, I like more comedies, but sometimes my husband insists on watching a fantastic or a scary movie just to diversify our repertory.
	Comedies make one laugh. People can just relax, buy a bottle of soda and some popcorn and enjoy those moments. It is a means of eliminating stress and tension. Usually, we go to the movie theatre once a month because in this case we always find new comedies to watch. I like those moments when it is dark and one can just enjoy the actions from a large screen.
	In summary, I think that every movie must teach us to be kind, strong and grateful.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/360-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-134-amount-of-violence-shown-on-tv-and-in-the-cinema-affects-the-actions-of-our-young-people",
Essay 1586:
	The question of whether the amount of violence on TV and cinema has affected young people in our society is something which cannot be quantified or proved. My opinion is though that the answer is “yes, it has”.
	TV and cinema today do show a large amount of violence and, although we try and shield our young people from seeing too much, they still get to watch it. At the age of eighteen in my country, they can see everything anyway. Violence on the streets has increased. That has been proved. The connection between the TV and the cinema obsession with violence and today's street violence cannot be proved but it is logical that the two are connected. Young people imitate what they see and it is logical that they see glamour in what they do when they commit violence.
	How can we lessen violence? Reducing the amount of violence on TV and in the cinema would certainly be a good start. Being more vigilant about what age children are when they see violence in these media, and raising the age limits would also help. Another good idea would be to channel the violence of young people. I don‛t think that national service should be re-established in this country but, if people are convicted of violence and sent to prison, then why not give them the option of serving in the army. Their violence will be controlled and they will be subjected to discipline so that they will be better able to control themselves when they leave.
	Thus I agree with the statement that cinema and TV violence affects the young people in our society. There are some things that can be done to better the situation but I doubt whether anything will be done.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/359-why-do-so-many-people-want-to-study-in-english",
Essay 1587:
	Countries like America, England, Canada and Australia not only offer courses in English but also have the most talented and skilled teachers. The facilities of their universities, libraries, laboratories are undoubtedly much better than other third world countries. Furthermore, many people believe that learning English language staying in an English-speaking country is the best way and that is why lots of students move to these countries to study.     
	There are lots of advantages in studying English. First of all, it is an international language and in most of the countries, it is either the second language or the official language. With the increasing effects of globalisation, people have to move to other countries for many reasons and in most of the cases, English is the only common language to interact with people. So for the communication people have no other choice but to learn and use English. Secondly, most of the countries use English as an official language and use it for hiring people. So to get a better job, one must be proficient in English. So to enhance the career growth, especially in a multinational organisation, one must be fluent in English. Finally, most of the books, thesis papers and internet article are either written in English language or can be found in translated into English. So to enrich someone's perspective and knowledge, one must be good at using English.         
	In my opinion, the primary reason for English language being so prominent is because it is used in most of the countries. The English colonies were almost everywhere in the world and that has different economic, political and cultural impacts for most of the nations. English is the primary language of the technological devices and the internet and this is because the inventors or developers are mostly from those English speaking countries. If a nation wants to embrace the technology, then it has no alternatives than to learn the language first. Most of the computer software and applications are written in English.  Furthermore, with the increasing effects globalisation, people are adopting the foreign music, movies, histories, books and style. So to follow what someone's favourite singer, actor or sports personality is to follow the culture and language of this person.               
	In conclusion, the world is considered as a single city nowadays and there must exist a common language and this common language is English. People learn this language to walk with the present trends and there is no alternative and even people prefer to learn the language from the English speaking countries and this is quite reasonable.
Essay 1588:
	Nowadays, many people are travelling to English-speaking countries to continue their education. Undoubtedly, if a person wants to have a prominent career, he has to be fluent in English.
	England, America, Australia and Canada are the best destinations for many. It is clear that the fastest way of learning a language is to be in a country where people use this language. Otherwise, no matter how many books someone reads, he might still not be able to communicate effectively. English is used globally and could be used to interact with people. This is why this is the most powerful language in the world. As for me, I lived in London for two years. When I just got there, I was extremely disappointed, because I could hardly understand their speech, despite having studied the language at the university before. Watching original films and TV programs, communicating with people, listening to their music, I noticed how my skills improved every day.
	English has become a global tool of communication. 80% of all e-mails, publications and music are in English. The Olympic Games ceremonies, The UN meetings, the numerous International Awards - all of them are held in the same language. Someone cannot be a promising professional if he does not know English. Moreover, while travelling, someone feels quite confident if he knows English.
	Overall, a well-educated person must know a foreign language to succeed in life. This is the main reason why thousands of people move to English-speaking countries. I think this tendency is going to increase in future, as well.
Essay 1589:
	These days many young people go to the western countries particularly in Australia, USA, and the UK because they want to study at university, college and school. They are influenced by various reasons that motivated them to study in the English speaking countries, and this international language is indispensable for everyone.  
	No doubt, the opportunity of studying in English speaking countries opens new doors for the youth, especially for the students of developing countries, due to many reasons. Firstly, in the developing countries, they don't have ample amount of standard quality education system although there are a lot of students in these states. As an example, many developing countries like Bangladesh and Nepal have less than fifteen public universities, which are very few compared to the number of total students. Secondly, many amenities are available in the English speaking countries such as larger libraries, wonderful reading resources, and excellent teaching system that make them more attractive to enter these kingdoms.
	Furthermore, English is dominant language as an international language for many significant causes. The primary point is that all necessary things like computer, the Internet, as well as most considerable technical equipment, are operated using English; thus, most people depend on this language.
	Another point is that it is easy to communicate with different ethnic people with the help of the language even it is applied one region to another region in a country. For instance, India has more than twenty-five states, while Hindi is the national language in India, people of different states talk with each other through English. It is clear from this above explanation that several benefits of using the English language make it predominant international language.
	In conclusion, many people intend to go in an English speaking country for tremendous advantages of the high-quality teaching system, and these university educations act as a precursor to career growth. Thus, this English language is very important to everyone.
Essay 1590:
	It is a fact that many people choose to study in English-speaking countries such as England, Australia, Canada and the US. The following essay will explain the reason why people decide to study in English language and why has English become an important language these days.
	For a number of reasons, a lot of people move to English-speaking countries such as the UK, New Zealand, and the USA to continue their further studies. Firstly, since we are living in the globalisation era, it is important to have good communication in English. By living in these countries, people are enforced to speak, listen and write in English and it will improve their English communication skill. Secondly, international trades with companies which reside in an English-speaking country have become a common thing nowadays and it is important to understand the culture of the people there. By studying and living in these countries, people could gain an understanding of their business culture and work environment. Besides, a lot of professionals want to migrate to these countries to have a better career prospect and better living standards. This motivates the younger generation to start it ahead and thus picking the universities and colleges of these countries to continue their education is a global phenomenon nowadays.    
	English has become an important international language these days. It is because English has been spread to many parts of the world since the colonial era. Every continent has countries where people speak English; like Singapore in Asia and South Africa in Africa. Another reason is that many advanced countries that have significant contributions to the world economy are speaking in English, such as the USA, Great Britain, Australia and Canada. Therefore it is important for people from non-English speaking countries to be able to communicate in English, as they will be dealing and negotiating with English speaking people. English without any dispute the global language of the world and someone has to learn it to communicate others. The advanced books in computing, science, literature and history are mostly written in English and this is the language that is spoken by the people regardless of their homelands.
	In conclusion, it is true that a lot of people choose to study in English-speaking countries these days. It is because English has become the main international language these days, and most of the international trades are communicated in English. By studying in an English speaking country, it is hoped that people will improve their English skill, and understand the lifestyle, working environment and business ethics there.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/358-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-132-buildings-often-reflected-the-culture-of-a-society-but-today-all-modern-buildings-look-alike",
Essay 1591:
	Historical architectures emblem the cultural heritage of a society and serve as a source of attraction and inspiration for the dwellers and tourists. The uniqueness of buildings in urban areas is gradually replaced by standard construction stencils and cities all over the globe are becoming identical. This essay will analyse some reasons for this convergence and will provide an opinion on this practice.
	With the advent of modern equipment, machinery and following similar standards of construction, metropolitan reveal a great deal of similarities in the architecture of buildings. This is primarily due to the increased land price where builders find it more economical to erect a building than to construct one unit housing scheme. Another reason is to provide inhabitants with the similar lifestyle. For instance, multipurpose shopping malls in Karachi and Lahore have similar structure featuring parking space, food courts, and ticket vending machines and so on. Moreover, governments are adopting similar planning and construction footprints to ensure all housing schemes, multipurpose complex, offices and so on are developed on modern layouts to save the environment from pollution, protect natives from furies of mother nature and so on.
	However, these modern practices come up with their own challenges can be rated good or bad for cities. Laudable arguments are that tourist feels homely, and people have same services and lifestyle. On the other hand, these advancements are damaging the cultural heritage and iconic features of a city which stands out in the world and are taking away its pride and inimitability.
	To conclude, modern construction practices have resulted in marvels and revamped the metropolitans. In my opinion, it is a good thing, but proper measures should be taken by the government to preserve the historic architecture and sights of a city.
Essay 1592:
	Every city has its architectural character, but the similarities between cities are more obvious these days than in the past. In my opinion, one reason for this is the high price of land.
	In most large cities, land is scarce and consequently, it is very valuable. This has led to the construction of tall buildings which occupy only a small area of land while providing lots of floor space where people can live or work. Buildings of this type are made of concrete and steel and can be built comparatively quickly using prefabricated materials. They do not use local materials, such as stone, timber or brick, which used to give cities their individual character. In consequence many cities. now look very much the same and you might not know whether you were in Brisbane, Bangkok or Berlin when you are on the street.
	While I realise that we cannot stand in the way of progress, I believe that cities should try to keep some individuality. For example, in Paris, it is prohibited to build very tall buildings in the centre of the city, as this would spoil the overall appearance of the skyline. Other cities have chosen to design unique buildings to ensure they look different. The twin towers in Kuala Lumpur or the Opera House in Sydney are examples of this approach, and I agree with this kind of initiative.
	All in all, although it is regrettable that modem cities look similar, I tend to feel that this is unavoidable. However, it can be argued that, even if the buildings are similar, cities will maintain their own character as a result of cultural diversity, the terrain and the climate, which ultimately determine how people live.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/357-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-131-what-gift-would-you-give-to-help-a-child-develop",
Essay 1593:
	People learn and develop throughout their entire lives. I think that in our modern world it is quite essential to be familiar with computer technology. So, if I had a chance to give a child a gift it would be a computer. I think that computers play an essential role in our lives and they bring many benefits to our society. Moreover, children can learn by use of computers. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to support my answer.
	First of all, by use of computers children can play many games, which help to improve children's ability to think logically, think about their next step, etc. Moreover, playing games develop many important qualities such as attention, patience, persistent, etc. Second of all, computers help children to learn more about anything by use of Internet. They can find new friends even from another country. Children will improve their communication skills, gain more knowledge and experience. Also, children have a great opportunity to learn more about other countries, their history, traditions and customs. Finally, computer skills can help a child to find his or her first job. A child can find an advertisement on the Internet about a job offer or he or she can make a resume and place it on the Internet. Personally, I think it is a great experience and a big step forward towards a future career.
	In addition to those practical benefits, computer technology helps children to do their homework faster. They can type their data into the computer, easily check the grammar, correct mistakes and then print it out. Moreover, there are plenty different kinds of educational programs that can help children learn how to read, write, draw and even how to behave and speak a foreign language.
	To conclude, I believe that children should learn how to use a computer because this knowledge will help them in the future to be more self-confident and enterprising. Furthermore, computers can greatly improve and simplify their lives if children know how to use them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/356-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-130-advertising-can-tell-you-a-lot-about-a-country",
Essay 1594:
	Every country has its own culture and traditions. There is no doubt that an advertising campaign conducted in Russia will not have the same effect here in the United States. Let us take for example advertisement of food and restaurants.
	As for Russia, it is a great tradition to have dinner at home with the family and go to the restaurant for big holidays. Additionally, fast food is not popular in Russia. So you will see advertisements of the yogurt, coffee, dairy products and juice instead of restaurants and fast food stands.
	In conclusion, I would like to add that in order to succeed in advertising campaign especially on the international market company must know traditions, language and history of the country.
Essay 1595:
	Advertising throughout the world is aimed to attract the targeted consumers or to promote the awareness of brands. Since the advertisement types and styles vary from country to country, it indeed exposes a lot about a country. That is why an advertisement aimed to target the Asian people would greatly vary from the one targeted for European citizens. 
	The theme, ingredients and models used in today's ads greatly vary from country to country. While fast food neon-ads are pretty common in the United States, this can rarely be seen in a poor country. The costume, the makeup and even the models of an advertisement give many insights of a country. Nowadays, global brands like Samsung, Nokia and LG are making different types of ads for different countries and that's mainly because those countries have different people with different cultural behaviours and choices. While a swimsuit advertisement may be a very popular one in one country it might be completely forbidden for another country. While one country has numerous streets ads of alcohol or other drinks, they might be prohibited in another country.
	After judging all the above-mentioned logics and arguments, we can easily understand that from the advertisement we can learn a great deal of information about a country.
Essay 1596:
	Each country has its own culture and traditions. In favour of luring a maximum number of customers, companies often use attractive advertisements that cope with the local culture and trends. I personally believe that an effective commercial is the one that addresses national interests and reflects as well people's inclinations and country's image in general.
	Over the last few decades, marketing has acquired the momentum to reach larger patterns of potential consumers. However, marketing campaigns may not be fruitful in terms of sales if advertisements, the most powerful mean of marketing, don't consider the way how people live, thus coping with their traditions. For instance, in India, you will find billboards figuring commercials about cloth washing hand soap much more than those of washing machine's soap, which indicates that most of the people are still washing their clothes by hand thus the percentage of poor people in the country is still very high.
	Moreover, advertisements incarnate the economic situation in a country like banks commercials about car loans in countries where people cannot afford to pay a considerable amount of money at once. Ethics in certain countries can also be embodied in some advertisements which, for example, encourage citizens to vote for new laws against women's abuse; this indicates the high rate of relative crimes in this country.
	Additionally, advertising generally resumes the extent of development in a country. Companies and merchants should efficiently and diligently react to the changing and cutting-edge needs of their markets. For instance, you find commercials about windows operating system for personal computers in developing countries, while in industrialised countries you are eye-bombarded by advertisements about cloud computing.
	In a nutshell, it has been proved that marketing should talk the same language as potential clients, and should ultimately evolve with their changing needs. For that main reason, companies make always sure to offer advertisements that reflect market's interests and updated needs. Thus advertisements in a country may provide one of the most realistic images of this country.
Essay 1597:
	Advertising is the best marketing policy of selling goods all around the world. It is commonly seen that multinational companies use different ways of advertising their products to increase their sale. It is agreed that advertising tells a lot about a country. In the following paragraphs, I will explain my point of views.
	Firstly, most of the countries use their cultural way to advertise their goods and services. For instance, in Pakistan Junaid's Kurta house, a clothing company, advertises their dresses in a cultural way, which is called Kurta. This makes it clear that the cultural dress of Pakistan is kurta, which is usually used on several occasions. As this shows that advertising can tell and show you a lot about a country.
	In addition, some companies advertise imported products from different countries, which can tell you a lot about the country itself. For example, in china noodle is their national food and if look at the noodle advertisement you will see a person eating noodles with two sticks though it is really hard for other countries’ people to eat with sticks. This makes it clear that eating noodles with sticks are Chinese brand while other countries people use folks. As this shows that you can judge a country by watching their advertisements.
	To sum up, the above statement, advertising clothes, food, services or any other product can be easily understandable that what the people of that country commonly use. It has been proven that you can tell about a country through watching their advertisement. Thus, it is recommended that keep advertising and keep cultural aspects alive.
Essay 1598:
	An advertisement is a branch of mass communication that provides information about the products and services offered by different companies as well as about country for its culture, society and geography. In my opinion apart from boosting the economy, it puts a multidimensional description of that area. I do agree that advertisement narrates much useful description about that region.
	In modern era advertisement is a necessary tool to sell the products.  Apart from its utility in energising the sale of products, it has a lot other benefits. Just observing the advertisements for few days one can estimate the amount of business, social norms, costumes, levels of education, language and history of a certain population group or of a nation. Involvement of any sports star in advertisement tells us it is the favourite sports of this Nation. Fashion magazines highlight garments that are vague in that society.  Shooting of scenes is shown in background of historical places, hill-stations and tourist places. These clips provide information about those places.
	Few advertisements are made only for the sake of promoting business. Actors are paid high for international tours and shooting is performed on world renowned places. The information in this strategy is mostly exaggerated and tried to be linked with culture and social norms of the community.
	In conclusion, an advertisement is a source of knowledge to a person living there and also to people who are seeing it from other countries.  This subgroup of mass communication is a good tool to get useful information about a particular country.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/355-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-129-is-the-amount-of-money-spent-on-space-research-justifiable",
Essay 1599:
	We all know that there is no perfect country in this world of ours. People face death through starvation every day due to the lack of money to buy food and other necessities, such as medication. Sometimes, there is a scarcity of these resources even if money is available. In my view, it is wrong for governments to spend enormous funds on their space exploration and astrophysics programs when there are poor people who are hungry and sick in their various countries.
	Secondly, many people in Africa have a lack of food, clean water and electricity. I believe that we have a moral and ethical duty to help Africa and other poor countries around the world. It is worthier to help those who share our own planet before we travel to the moon. As for myself, I did my pharmacy internship in Egypt, where I witnessed many examples of why it would be wise for the government to spend more money in the area of medical / pharmaceutical research. Many people there face pain and death every day because of the Hepatitis C Virus. This insidious virus is responsible for causing the deaths of more than 1 million people in Africa each year. The cost of medication to treat it is very high -- approximately 20,000 dollars per patient. On the other hand, Egypt has spent more than 200 million dollars on space exploration and researching other planets. I think that it would have been a much smarter choice for them to have used the money to provide medication for those who could not afford it.
	In summary, it is my viewpoint that governments should concentrate on solving their own internal problems by offering their citizens the basic requirements of life such as food, clean water/sanitation, shelter and medication. They should use any excess money for improving the lives of their inhabitants by providing them with educational opportunities so that they can find decent jobs in order to become independent. It is important to fund academic pursuits such as space exploration and research in the field of Astrophysics, of course, but not at the expense of the lives of human beings who live on this planet.
Essay 1600:
	There has always been considerable discussion and debate about whether governments in many countries should spend taxpayers’ money on space research. In my view, it is impossible to justify the amount of money spent on space research. Generally speaking, the main reason for this position is that there are several areas in which the money could be invested better. When we have so many problems and hungry people in the Earth, spending money on space is not a good choice at all.
	The first point to make is that governments have a responsibility to spend public money on projects that bring a benefit to the citizens. This has not been the case with space research as most developments have been limited to helping astronauts in space or have been very specialised. For example, it is not of great value to the general public that we now have pens and biros that can write upside down. This does not merit the huge amount of money spent. Little success has been made so far on space exploration except landing on the Moon or knowing that Mars had once been a place for living being. What good that can bring to people who are starving in many countries?
	The second point to make is that there are many much more urgent projects on Earth that require investment. If governments spent less money on space research, then they would be able to help solve some of these problems such as population control, elimination of diseases like cholera, global warming and food shortages. It seems to me that all of these issues are more important because they affect the lives of millions of ordinary people. An illustration of this is that the US government could provide food for all the starving people in the world if they did not spend so much on NASA.
	My conclusion is that politicians should not fund space research. The grounds for saying this are that it is very costly and provides little real benefits. Furthermore, there are several more urgent issues that need to be funded.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/354-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-128-should-museums-and-art-galleries-be-free-of-charge-for-the-general-public",
Essay 1601:
	People have argued about the entrance fee to museums and art galleries. Some people believe that it should be free of charged for the public, while others think that there should be an entrance fee. The following essay will explain  these contradictory opinions in details, but in my point of view, I do believe that there should be levied for admittance.
	For a number of reasons, many people believe that the public should not be charged with any kind of fee when they enter museums or art galleries. Firstly, these sites have been funded by the government through taxes that were paid by residents. When museums and art galleries charge entrance fees, it means that people are paying double charges. Secondly, although these places contain historical and artistic artefacts but these places are not popular and attractive places. When these museums and galleries charge some fees, it is predicted that there will be fewer people who will visit these places.
	On the other hand, another group of people think that the public should be charged with either voluntary or admittance fees when they visit a museum or an art gallery. These people believe that by charging visitors with a certain amount of fees, it educates them to appreciate the value of history and arts. Besides that, these fees can be used to reduce subsidies that have been given by the government. The fund could be relocated by the government for other important matters such as education, public health or transportations.
	In conclusion, people often debate about the entrance fee of museums or art galleries. Several people think that there should not be any charges for visitors, while others disagree. I personally believe that there should proportionate charges for people when they enter the museum or an art gallery, as the fund could be used to cover the operational expense of these places, and reduce the subsidy from the government. 
Essay 1602:
	One very complex issue in today’s world is the funding of museums and art galleries. There is an argument that they should be free to the general public and funded by governments, but there is also a case for saying that they should charge an entrance fee like other attractions. In this essay, I am going to examine both sides of this issue.
	Those who argue that museums should be free typically make one of two arguments. The first argument is that institutions like museums are a public service and therefore there should be free access to the man in the street. If for example there was a charge only the wealthy could afford to enjoy works of art. The second argument is that if they did levy a charge, fewer people would go to museums. This would be serious as they are educational institutions and standards would fall.
	In contrast, there is only one major argument on the other side of the debate. This is that both museums and art galleries need to charge an entrance fee if they are to survive in the modern world. Governments do not have sufficient funds to subsidise all such institutions and there are other priorities for public money. Therefore these galleries and museums need to charge their customers not only to survive but to update their exhibitions and make new purchases. By way of illustration, the Tate Modern in London could not have been founded without revenue from admissions.
	My personal position is that there is no clear answer to this question as there are such strong arguments on both sides. Perhaps it is possible for some museums and galleries to charge fees and for others not to. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/353-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-127-more-and-more-young-people-are-leaving-school-but-unable-to-find-jobs",
Essay 1603:
	Job crisis is one the most critical problems for almost all of the countries and the there are lots of  negative consequences for the unemployment young and the society. The people are aware now about the education and the percentage of the people going to the colleges and universities are more than anytime it had before. So as a result, more students are graduating from the colleges and universities but with the increased population and limited opportunities, none can ensure the employment for all the graduating young people.
	There are many problems concerning those unemployed young people. First of all, they become so depressed and feel dejected. They start abusing drugs and start doing unethical things that are harmful both for themselves and for the society. Since they need money but have no steady income source so they involve them with some heinous task like drug dealing, stealing, robbery, blackmailing etc. They are often misused as political pawns and thus they corrupt the society at a large.
	If a society cannot ensure economic freedoms and jobs for the young, then it must suffer from numerous ethical disorders and social calamities. The rate of crimes increases and as young are the most dominating portion of any society , they gone uncontrolled and thus steal the peace of the whole society.
	Finally, the individual should be self-motivated and hardworking to develop their own situation and help the society to become a better place to live in beside the efforts of the Government.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/352-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-126-air-travel-should-be-restricted-because-it-causes-serious-pollution",
Essay 1604:
	Air travel has become highly popular and it can easily bee understood if we only look at the upcoming and departed number of flights in a busy aviation. Since the air travel saves a great deal of time, most of the business persons today chose air travel prior to any other root. Travelling through the air has many advantages as well as many disadvantages. In my opinion, important air travel should not be restricted but when the air travel becomes a mean of luxury then it must be restricted.
	At first, no other route can take a business person so fast that an air transport can and people, especially opulent business executives use this route to reach the destination fast. Then, travelling to a far destination or a distant country, air transportation system is a must. For instance, travelling from India to the USA is quite impossible through road, ship or in any other vehicle and people in these cases have no alternative than to using an airway.
	But nowadays it has become a fashion for people to use airways even for a very short distance. Air transportation systems are using a large portion of world's reserve fuel and affecting the environment by polluting it. So restriction should be applied in these cases. For example: if a destination takes only 2-4 hours  in road then the idea of travelling through air is pointless and highly extravagant. A government should apply strict rules so that an aviation company can distinguish a true business executive and a tourist and give the business person the option to travel through the air and encourage the tourist to take an alternative route.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/351-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-125-some-people-think-history-has-nothing-or-little-to-tell-us",
Essay 1605:
	History tells about the old civilisations, their strategies, their way of living, world conflict and the ways people overcame it. So I don't agree that history has a little to tell us.
	The basic characteristics, sufferings, crisis and wit are same for all the ages of the human kind. The way people struggled to achieve a better life in the primitive time is very much similar to the present time. The ways may be different but the theme is same and there is lots of evidence that the study of past history reviles a new invention to the present people. Though it is true that history itself is disputed as it has been written by the winners and sometimes history differs from place to place. For example: according to Indian History, English came to rule the country and had destroyed the peaceful lifestyle there by treachery and cunning strategies but in English history the English are heroes and they claim to modernise the Indian. In my opinion, nonetheless history has it's invaluable importance to all of us will remain until the end of the human race.
	How could we know about the great people who had sacrificed their lives for the betterment of the world or those who have cruelly tried to bring suffering for people? History tells us a lot about the people of all centuries. History suggests the different techniques that can be malevolent or beneficial for a country by presenting practical evidence. Again, history tells us about the devastating wars and potentially warns us about the conflict of nations. History suggests us about the good and evil and helps us to choose the appropriate way.                 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/350-proportion-of-older-people-is-steadily-increasing",
Essay 1606:
	With the advancement of science and medicine, people are enjoying a longer life than before and in many countries, people are well aware of the population growth and as a result having only one kid or two. These reasons lead the fact that in many countries, the proportion of older people is growing faster. This has both the positive and negative effects.
	At first, older people are more experienced and can contribute largely by counselling the young generation. There are some professions like teaching where an experienced teacher can be more benevolent than a young teacher. Again, older people are the witness of the history and they can reveal the past to us more practically than others. Finally, since young members of a family are busy outside and cannot manage time to share with kids, so the older people can be good companions to those kids and can help them to raise in a family environment rather than in a day-care- centre.   
	On the contrary, in some society older people are considered to be burden especially in those areas where people suffer from extreme poverty. Older people require more attention and extra care and the touch of relatives. But because of generation gap and poverty, they are often ignored and that's a horrible experience for them. Again, naturally aged people can't do much physical labour and that's why they have fewer practical contributions to the society compared to their young counterparts.
	Considering all the issues , though it might seem little harsh but  I think that a considerable portion of older people can be helpful for all of us but if it's reach to an extreme proportion then it's a bad omen both for the new generation and the old people themselves.
Essay 1607:
	Thanks to the technological and scientific advancements, people's lives have become significantly progressed, particularly in improving human health with the most modern applications and effective treatments. It is inevitable that the remarkable increase in life expectancy has been a phenomenon in many countries as well as impacted both positively and negatively on their societies.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/349-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-123-there-are-social-medical-and-technical-problems-associated-with-the-use-of-mobile-phones",
Essay 1608:
	It is believed that the existence of cellular phone technology has created social, medical and technical problems for individuals and societies. I personally disagree with the thought, if people think that there are more disadvantages than the advantages of cell phones and the following essay will discuss this issue in details.
	To begin with, it is true that the development of mobile phone technology has created some problems for human kinds. Firstly, many people believe that the wireless phone technology has made people become more individualistic. In the most common case, many families are having communication problems these days, due to each member of the family are busy with their devices.
	Secondly, it has been reported that the wireless technology has some negative effects on our health. Many scientists believe that the technology has become one of the contributors to human's brain damage and trigger brain cancer as well. Thirdly, it has been reported that some people have been injured due the technical problems of the phone itself. There have been cases where the battery of the phone had exploded when it was used to make phone calls, and it caused serious injuries to the user.
	Despite all the social, medical and technical problems of mobile phones, I do believe that the existence of the device brings a lot of benefits for human beings. Mobile phones can be used to connect to a specific person, though the person might be travelling to other places. And then, with the various function of mobile phone technology nowadays, it can be used to send and received important emails. Besides that, with the chatting application that could be installed on the phones, it has made distance communication become cheaper. And last but not the least, the phone can also be used as a navigation system to find a new area or new address.
	In conclusion, it is true that handheld phone technology has caused some problems for mankind, but I disagree with the opinion that the problem of these phones outweighs the benefits. I do believe that mobile phone has assisted the human being in various ways and it is the irresponsible act of humans themselves that has caused the problem.
Essay 1609:
	Mobile phone using has become a very common phenomenon and people mostly depend on this cell phone for communication. The cell phone is probably the most accepted and widely used communication device than any other communication device of the past time. Though cell phone causes many healths related problem as well as social and other problems but I can't agree with the idea that it outweighs the benefits.
	Though I agree that, there are lots of adverse effects of using the cell phones. Drivers using cell phones while driving is a common cause of road accidents and overuse of cell phones can cause many diseases, from severe headaches to incurable cancers. The easy access to cell phones has violated our privacy and helped the criminals to be more organised.
	But I believe that those negative effects can be overcome if all of we become a little more cautious and be aware of the negative issues of overuse of cell phone using. Since we can't stop using the cell phone and find and alternative and it is easily possible to reduce the negative effects of cell phone using , I strongly opine that cell phone is a very useful device to all of us in spite of its some remediable problems.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/348-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-122-some-people-believe-that-they-should-keep-all-the-money-they-have-earned",
Essay 1610:
	To begin with, it is a fact that taxes are used by the government for developing its nations. Taxes are allocated for various kinds of essential matters. Firstly, they are used for expanding and maintaining public transportation facilities, such expanding roads and highways, and replacing old public transportation units. Secondly, taxes are utilised for providing decent medical services and basic educations for their residents. And last but not least, taxes are also used for funding military services, which is important for maintaining the political stability of a nation.
	And then, people should also notice that taxes that they have paid, will also be beneficial for themselves sooner or later. Some of the funds that have been collected by tax authorities are used for retirement funds. It means that in the end people will enjoy and benefit some personal facilities from the government, which are funded from taxes. Therefore people should not keep their earnings to themselves and they should comply in paying their tax duties and obligations.  
	In conclusion, I do not agree if we should keep all our income and not pay any taxes to the government, as taxes are beneficial for the development of the people and the nation themselves.
Essay 1611:
	Whether people should pay tax to the government or not is an argument of great debate. Some people think that it is government's responsibility to raise money from other sectors and should not take the portion of a person's hard earning cash while others stand just opposite of this opinion. I believe if the government spend the money for the benefit of the citizen, as it meant to be for every country, and value  the mass people's opinions and suggestions how to best use the money, then there is nothing wrong with the tax paying method and rather had many positive reasons to do so.
	Those who are against the tax paying system often opine that the government should never take their hard earning money for the sake of country's development scheme. This is especially true for those who earn an amount that barely supports  his/her family and who are not satisfied with the public service provided by the government. In many countries, people have to pay a tax of more than a quarter of the total earning of a year and yet do not get basic facilities like treatment, education and they have to spend their own pocket money for those purposes. This is very natural that they become angry about the tax paying.
	But tax , collected from the people of a country can be a great fund to use for their betterment by the government. There are lots of poor people who can be benefited from the tax paid by the others. The government can build more roads, offer public services, and can introduce other useful scheme using the money. Almost in most of the countries, people who earn more than a predefined amount have to pay tax and not for those who earn less than that amount. So Government is not forcing poor people to pay tax but those who are able to pay tax.     
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/347-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-121-housing-problem-in-big-cities-has-social-consequences",
Essay 1612:
	It is a fact that population density and the increasing number of housing have created some social problems in many large cities. A group of people believe that the issue could only be solved by the government. I personally agree with the statement and the following essay will discuss it in details.
	It is true that the increasing population in large cities such as Jakarta, New York or Beijing has created some social issues. Firstly, as the demand for houses in big cities increase, the price of properties has risen by double or triple in the past few years. This situation has affected to the middle and lower income class, as they could not afford to buy houses in the city. Most of them purchase properties in more developed areas of the city and consequently they have to spend more money on transportation to the workplace. Secondly, the high demand of housing areas has created some environment issues. As more houses are built in the cities, the number of parks and trees become lesser and lesser these days. As we all know that trees are beneficial for human beings, as they produce oxygen and absorb pollution. Consequently, air pollution in these cities has become worst than ever these days and the number of people who have respiration problem has increased.
	In order to restore these conditions, it is the government task to restructure the city, as they are the one who has the power and the authority. The government should stop giving new permits for city developers. They should expand and develop new areas, therefore some of the city’s people will move to the new area and it will gradually reduce the density problem. And then, the government should set strict regulations about developing new real estates in the city, as there should be a proportionate ratio between building and green areas in the city. With a proportionate number of parks and buildings, it is hoped the city became greener and cleaner.
	In conclusion, I agree that it is the government task to solve the social consequences of density issue. As they have the power and the authority to resolve the issue, they should set measurable campaigns and programs to resolve the problems.
Essay 1613:
	The population of the world is increasing each day and more and more people in most of the countries are moving to the big cities for the hope of a better life and this trend has an ultimate consequence of housing problem. I believe that government has a vital role to solve the problem by decentralising the big cities and by building industries in remote areas of the main cities.
	The big cities of a country have more job opportunities than the rural and remote areas and this is the major reason people every day moving to big cities. Since most of the industries, office perimeters and other organisations are situated in the city areas and these create a high potential for all level of people to earn their living. The agriculture of the village are not profitable anymore and the over increasing price of agricultural products bound the farmers to have an alternative profession and to move to a big city. Second reason, so many people move to big cities, is the educational institutes are mostly in the city areas and students each year come to these metropolitan cities for a better education. There are lots more reasons people moving to cities each day and I believe the government has the vital role to stop this phenomenon by decentralising the city areas. There is no necessity for a University to be situated in the centre of  a city and the government can easily force the organisations and industries to move to remote areas and new industries to be built outside the main city.
	More people need more houses to stay in, and as people moving to the cities daily the rent of the apartments are increasing dramatically. Many people with an average income can’t afford to rent a room and living a miserable life. There are lots of street-living people who cause the city become more polluted. Due to street-life and because of over increasing housing problem, the number of violence and crime are increasing too.            
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/346-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-120-people-who-just-finished-college-have-a-hard-time-interacting-with-colleagues",
Essay 1614:
	Working as a team member requires some extra skills and experiences and the fresh graduates from the colleges or universities often find it hard to work an efficient team member. In my opinion, this possibly happens because of the lack of professionalism & experiences and since the newly graduates switch from the university environment to a totally new job environment.
	The team members of a business, most of the times work to achieve a goal and work accordingly. Experience as a team member of a large organisation is required to fully understand the responsibilities and spirit of a team. In a team, most of the members work as a whole rather than working individually and sometimes have no freedom to work spontaneously.  In the university perimeters, students lead a free academic life and have little experience in working in a team. They are often given assignments that require more than one students to work together but this is totally different compared to working in a business organizations, because in the university they are mostly friends or classmates and in an office team there are superiors and the fresh graduate often find themselves in a situation where they think they are not treated properly. They often try to implement their own ideas and as a team member, it is sometimes welcomed but not often.    
	There are some other reasons as well. For example, fresh graduates often think that their superiors are just trying to boss around them and have little friendly attitudes. Another reason is that switching from one environment to completely different one is some time distressful and it takes times to adopt to the new environment. But the college or university graduate students are often placed in a team as a member from the very beginning of their joining date. I think they should be given some time to adjust the working environment and to find themselves comfortable in the new environment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/345-people-should-have-different-amount-of-holiday-according-to-their-job",
Essay 1615:
	The development of industrialisation and the amazing improvement of working efficiency render people more chances to enjoy holidays in the current society. Suppose you are making a trip to a place totally strange to you, the first thing you do is to find yourself accommodation and lodging. But you will feel disappointed the moment you arrive at the situation that all the hotels, restaurants, stores and even banks are closed because of an important holiday, such as Christmas day or Thanksgiving. At this moment, you are in the same boat as Robinson Crusoe, who was abandoned on a lonely island without any help or hope.
	To erase the embarrassment, some corporations and governments work out some flexible and feasible holiday policies, providing people with convenience. Shifting is often adopted by factories and manufacturers because it guarantees timely fulfilment of production targets and orders on the one hand and gives employees sufficient time for relaxation on the other. If needed, employees have to work overtime, with a bonus as a compensation for the holiday they missed.
	For banks and other public services, things are quite different. Holidays are prime time for supermarkets, department stores, restaurants and retailers. Some people like holding parties or having feasts with their friends at the weekend and other people prefer to go shopping in department stores, which will take great profits to merchandisers. With large amounts of cash flow, banks must keep open from Monday to Sunday.
	Teachers enjoy very long holidays during an academic year because they can prepare their lectures and lessons for the new semester and relax during the holidays. Long holidays are not only beneficial to teachers health but also to the students.
	Considering the different characteristics of people's job, I think that different people should have different amounts of holidays. At the first sight, this idea sounds unfair. But on second thoughts, it is reasonable and understandable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/344-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-118-damage-to-environment-is-an-inevitable-consequence-of-the-improvement-in-the-standard-of-living",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/343-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-117-countries-have-a-moral-obligation-to-help-each-other",
Essay 1616:
	With the process of economic globalisation, many countries and regions have strengthened cooperation and liaison in the fields of industry, agriculture, trade and finance. In order to dedicate to the mutual development, many developed countries spare no effort to help the poor countries by means of technological, medical and financial aid, which, to my mind, is quite essential to the development of the world.
	Firstly, aids from developed countries optimise people's living standard and eradicate poverty in the poor countries. Due to the backwardness of science and technology, people in some undeveloped countries and regions such as Africa, Latin America and Asia suffer a great deal from poverty, hunger and the scarce of water. International aids from developed countries have improved their living environment and helped them with the development of agriculture, industry and economy.
	Secondly, international aids give good medical care and help promote hygienic condition in the poor countries. Malaria, cholera and smallpox were once severe threats to people's health. With the help of the World Health Organization and some developed countries, these diseases have been eliminated soon and the residents in the infected areas survived these deadly diseases, which would have devoured millions of lives without international aid.
	Finally, aids to the undeveloped countries, in turn, benefit the donators. Due to the limitation of natural and human resources, the production cost rises sharply in the developed countries. With a view to reducing cost, many countries transferred their assembly lines and production bases to the developing countries, which not only solves the problem of low rate of employment in the developing countries but also make full use of the local resources.
	Nevertheless, some countries are showing great concern about the mal-expense of their aid aroused by bureaucracy and corruption of some governments. Therefore, the governments should take effective measures to utilise international aids reasonably and prevent abuse. Only with the help of international aids, can our world develop more quickly and steadily.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/342-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-116-many-problems-in-schools-are-aroused-by-the-attitudes-of-students",
Essay 1617:
	School violence becomes very protrusive in many countries, most of which are caused by the attitudes of students. Some governments and the authorities show great concerns about the problems. From my point of view, these problems are aroused by three factors, the development of society, the influence of family and media and the weakness of school education.
	The rapid development of the society offers more opportunities for the young students to contact the outside world. Due to the lack of social experience, some youngsters are not capable of distinguishing right from wrong. Curiosity drives them into imitating what they see on TV or from the people around them. Therefore, it is easy for them to be addicted to alcohol, smoking and drugs. Some students even smoke and take drugs at school.
	Family violence is another major factor causing problems in schools. Family violence hurt children both physically and psychologically. Physically, family violence will hurt their tender body because children are still in the stage of development. Psychologically, physical punishment will hurt children's self-confidence and make them have a tendency of violence. Recently, school gunshots hit the headlines frequently, which should partly be attributed to the family violence.
	Finally, the weakness of school education is another factor causing school problems. Some schools only stress students' achievements in their study, neglecting their moral education. Therefore, even some top students are apt to stride on the criminal road.
	To solve these problems, I think we should take the following measures. Firstly, schools should strengthen students' moral education, giving them correct directions and cultivating their ability to tell right from wrong. Secondly, parents should spare some time to communicate with their children, resolving difficulties and troubles for them timely. If the school and family can join hands in solving these problems, I think the students will develop healthily and the environment in schools will become much clearer.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/341-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-115-traffic-is-a-very-serious-problem",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/340-creative-artists-should-be-given-freedom-to-express-their-ideas",
Essay 1618:
	The issue of freedom of creative artist has extremely grown in importance in most countries over the few decades. It is considered that government should not interfere with their works and the artists should be free to do whatever they want. While I accept many artists are sharing their valuable ideas for the tremendous development of this world, I believe some certain area they should be controlled by the rules and regulation.  
	Admittedly, the human civilisation has approached this sophisticated stage because many creative artists have bestowed us an enormous number of significant ideas and opinions in the form of pictures, music or films. As an example, many creative artists like Leonardo Da Vinci, Pablo Picasso and  Michelangelo Buonarroti had first drawn the design of aeroplane; but, at that time nobody could think that human can fly and everybody thought it was just imagined of his mind. Although it required a long time, but it became true that human now can fly. This example makes it clear that the work of artists can lead to immense improvement of humankind. Therefore, many people think that they should be free with their works for the advancement of the human being.
	On the other hand, there are some vital reasons why the work of artists should be controlled in some certain area. Firstly, most people in this world believe in the God; so the artist should not create such type of acts, which hurt the religion. If this type of activity they make, it may bring colossal embarrassment to the human society. Secondly, the artist should not go against any culture and costume of a country. In this certain field, government can limit the practice of an artist.
	In conclusion, the creative artists are indispensable in our society although some artists have tended to draw against our cast, creed, and religion. In my opinion, this tendency may call harmful to our mankind so that the government should control the activity, which can go directly against to our culture and religion.
Essay 1619:
	The responsibility of an artist is to create artworks to cater for people's needs for aesthesis and enjoyment. Some masterpieces by the world-renowned artists like Shakespeare, the greatest poet in British literature; Vinci, the most famous Italian painter, architect and sculptor impress people around the world deeply. From my point of view, the government should not give restrictions to artists. On the contrary, their creativity and innovation should be encouraged.
	Creativity is the source of arts. The development of literature is a very vivid illustration. From Classicism to Romanticism, from Renaissance to Realism, from Humanity to Post-modernism, all the styles of literature reflect people's thinking and have epoch-making significance. Suppose there was only one style of literature, people would not appreciate so abundant poetry and novels and our world would become so monotonous.
	Furthermore, restrictions on creativity will arouse tragedies, one of which is Burn books and bury the literati in pits in Chinese history launched by Emperor Qin Shihuang, who buried the Confucian scholars alive and prohibited the dissemination of Confucian. Another tragedy was started by Emperor Yongzheng in the Qing Dynasty, who killed many creative artists and intellectuals, undermining the literal development and distorting the development of humanity. History proves that only when a government encourages people to express their own idea and thought freely, can its country make progress and prosper.
	Finally, I will quote a classic sentence from a famous article entitled Give Me Liberty Or Give Me Death by Patrick Henry, the greatest writer in American history, I know not what course others may take; but as for me, give me liberty or give me death!
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/339-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-113-computer-can-translate-languages-so-children-need-not-study-foreign-languages-any-more",
Essay 1620:
	Some students are thinking of giving up studying English as modern machines can do the job of translation. However, I think it is wrong to drop studying English, as machines cannot do perfectly, especially in translation, which is a sophisticated process and needs so many skills.
	Firstly, what machines can do now is translate word for word, without consideration of context. When a computer translates scientific works, they can do a satisfying job. But when it comes to literature works, they cannot weigh every word according to different situations, and thus their job cannot display the path of original works. Suppose we give a poem by Shakespeare for translation, we can imagine how ridiculous the translation would be.
	Secondly, machines cannot convey the manner of speakers. If the speaker says in different tones like surprisingly, sarcastically or delightedly, the machine will not be able to express the emotions of people; therefore, we have no idea of what speakers really mean. When there is face-to-face communication, we can understand people judging from their expressions, body gestures and so on, even if we do not use many words. But machines cannot do this.
	On the other hand, English study offers one a new and different perspective of English-speaking countries because language and culture are closely related to each other. Machines can never do this. When we study English, we not only learn the language but also know more about the culture, history and customs. Machines can never replace the process of English study and give us a better understanding of the cultural background.
	To sum up, translation machines help us in some way but it doesn't mean that we can quit studying English because English study can give us much more than the English language itself.
	With the rapid development of computer science computers nowadays can translate to and from all major languages. Therefore, some people say that children do not need  to study foreign languages anymore. From my point of view, I think computers will never take the place of human beings and without learning a language, people won't be able to take the benefit of computers translation related works.
	Firstly, language is closely related to a country's culture. Through language study, students can know the culture of a country. For example, if you study English, you can know a lot of things about English literature, English poetry, English festivals and English customs. I am English major. I like English romantic poems very much. The beautiful verses by Shelley, Burns and other famous English poets are still very popular in modern literature. We also enjoy some English festivals like Halloween, April Fools Day and Christmas, when people celebrate in night clubs and bars and have a lot of fun.
	Secondly, a computer is only a machine, whose programs are designed and written by human beings. Without an intimate knowledge of foreign languages and translation, we cannot write an efficient translation program for computers, which will be a cold machine and become useless.
	Thirdly, language study can cultivate a child's intelligence. Language is a unique ability of our human beings. Language study can improve children's audio ability. They can distinguish the subtle differences of pronunciation and rhythm.
	However, we ca not deny the advantages the computers have brought for us. We often need to read some foreign articles and materials in our study and work and some translation software can give us an immediate explanation of some difficult words, which saves us a lot of valuable time.
	To conclude, computers will never take the place of our human beings as a translator or an interpreter, because their ability is decided by human beings.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/338-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-112-more-and-more-women-go-out-to-work",
Essay 1621:
	The rapid development of economy and society results in the significant improvement of women's social status. More and more women, confined to babysitting and chores previously, have stepped out of their family and become career women. But in the meantime, career women are confronted with considerable nuisances, one of which is baby caring.
	Women's participation in the employment contributes a great deal to the society. Thanks to the women's patience, warmth and carefulness, most women are employed as secretaries, nurses, consultants and babysitters. But due to the pressure from work and family, they cannot concentrate fully on their work. Some countries and governments adopted some active measures to resolve the contradiction, such as the policy of feasible working time, which renders women some freedom. However, this is not a radical solution.
	From my point of view, the government should subsidise women in baby caring and provide charge-free facilities and staff members to relieve women of their pressure. On the one hand, women can focus themselves on their work and study, with no distraction from their family and children. In return, factories and companies can benefit a lot from the practice of subsidiary, which exempts them from the losses caused by female absentees. On the other hand, children enjoy their right to the education. Many countries give priority to children's education, providing children with free elementary schooling, which not only popularises knowledge but also cultivates skilled talent for the society. Besides, the United Nations have issued relevant laws and regulations with a view to protecting children's educational right.
	To draw the conclusion, a government should spare no effort to relieve women of their burdens and shoulder the responsibility of children's education, which is not only a government's obligation but also people's appeal.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/337-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-111-scientists-use-living-animal-to-carry-out-research",
Essay 1622:
	Concerning the issue whether scientists should use living animals for scientific research, people hold different views. Some people claim that it is cruel, while some other people argue that it is beneficial to the development of science. As far as I am concerned, I am in favour of carrying out experiments on animals.
	Firstly, scientists can do initial experiments on animals to test the effect of a new medicine. Scientists have achieved so many milestones on the way to medical development. But they can not find any effective treatment for some diseases yet, like cancer and AIDS, which are fatal to people's health. Through experiments on animals, scientists can not only understand the pathology of some diseases but also try the effect of medicine and find the most effective treatment for these diseases, making a great breakthrough in the field of medicine.
	Secondly, using living animals in the laboratory, the teachers in the university or some research institutes can demonstrate the anatomic knowledge to the students majoring in medicine, rendering students a direct understanding of biological knowledge, which can improve the level of medical research and make great contributions to the medical science. Without experiments on living animals, genetic technology would not have developed so quickly. Actually, most scientists attribute their success and breakthroughs to experiments on animals.
	Finally, Some animals can provide human beings with essential organs for transplantation. Genetic technology will change the genes of some animals. In the near future, organs of animals will take the place of artificial organs like heart pumps, prolonging patients life.
	However, research on living animals faces a moral problem because animals are also living which possess equal rights as human beings, according to many. On a second thought, it is worthwhile for the purpose to accelerate the development of science and the progress of human civilisation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/336-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-110-young-people-have-gained-status-and-power-but-old-people-have-lost",
Essay 1623:
	The knowledge-based society witnessed great changes over the past decades. Many young people have taken the place of the old ones and gained political and financial power in the world. Bill Gates, the director of Microsoft, Tony Blaire, Prime Minister of Britain and Bush, President of the USA give us a vivid illustration. From my point of view, the trend is natural and inevitable.
	Young people are energetic and vigorous. Most of them have received formal education in university, where they acquired abundant knowledge and experience, which are quite essential to their future career. Compared with young people, old people's knowledge is outdated, which does not fit in with the development of the current society. Old people react more slowly than young people, who can always make quick judges and prompt decisions. Furthermore, young people are more open-minded than old people who have a tendency of conservation. Therefore, young people can adapt themselves to the changeable world more easily.
	Obviously, this trend brings about both advantages and disadvantages. On the one hand, young leaders and powers can inject vigour and new hopes to the world, which not only benefits the development of the global economy but also establishes multilateral relation among the countries in the world. On the other hand, young people still lack adequate experience and skills to deal with sophisticated national problems and international relations. As a result, many young leaders in the world are often criticised for the lack of tactics by old people. Some young people are very radical when faced with trouble. They still have a lot of things to learn.
	Generally, old people should offer young guys opportunities to practice their abilities and talents. At the same time, young people should learn from old ones modestly and make themselves more admirable.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/335-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-109-tv-internet-and-radio-are-very-popular-nowadays",
Essay 1624:
	Internet and TV, as the mainstream of media, play a very import role in information transformation. They present a colourful and vivid world in front of us. Some people assert that Internet and TV would take the place of books in a couple of years. However, facts tell us that each medium has its own advantages and disadvantages. Books will not retreat from our life.
	Admittedly, Internet and TV bring about many conveniences to us. Firstly, Internet and TV can transform information instantly. They can tell us what happened in the world right away with very impressive dynamic pictures. During the 17th World Cup, many people watched the games on TV or Internet live. Internet and TV can also tell us the latest development of science and technology and the fashion trend nowadays, which can keep us abreast with the world. Secondly, Internet and TV also play an important educational role. For instance, people can study history, culture, language and cooking skills from some educational programs on TV or Internet. Lastly, People can get entertainment from Internet and TV, which are abundant in interesting and exciting electronic games and adventures.
	However, we should not neglect the importance of books which are very convenient to carry and easy to get. Books are available everywhere, such as in a library,  bookstore, in your pocket or beside your pillow. After a day's work, we can lay on a bed and relax by reading some novels or newspapers. You can read a very interesting story on a train or on a plane. TV and the Internet would not be that convenient and further, they could cause tiredness sometimes if you sit in front of a TV and a computer for a very long time.
	In conclusion, books are one of the main sources of information and they are very convenient for people to read. Books will not disappear from our life in the future, though TV and the Internet have so profound influence in our life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/334-should-old-men-live-with-young-people-together",
Essay 1625:
	With the development of society, we have stepped into an old-man world. Many countries and governments are much concerned about the situation confronting us, especially how old men can live a happy life. Under this circumstance, many old-man clubs bamboo up with the view to provide elderly a better place to settle down. In my opinion, I think this is a good practice to solve old-man problem.
	Firstly, many young people are quite busy now. They devote themselves wholly to their work and life so that they cannot spare enough time to stay with their parents. Old-man clubs can offer bounteous food and entertainment facilities to the old people, rendering them a happy life there. In the old-man clubs, they can also make some new companions and friends and establish a good relation with them.
	Secondly, with the acceleration of people's living tempo, many young people are facing heavy pressure from the society, their work and families. If they live together with their parents, they will shoulder the responsibility to care for them and their pressure will become heavier and heavier. Old-man club relieves the heavy burden of them and makes them concentrate on their work fully.
	Finally, old-man club can also give careful medical to the old people. If old men live with their family, they are not ensured to be sent to the hospital immediately after they get ill. In the old-man clubs, they can get good medical care and recover soon. However, everything has double folds. Sometimes, old people feel very lonely because they often think of their daughters, sons and grandchildren. They prefer family atmosphere.
	To sum up, I think the appearance of old-man clubs is a good thing for old people. It provides the old people with a better environment. But old-man clubs are not a paradise definitely, which is a compromise to family intimation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/333-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-107-discuss-the-influence-on-world-economy-and-other-aspects-taken-by-9-11-incident",
Essay 1626:
	On 11th September, the whole world was shocked by the terrorist attack on New York, the centre of American politics, finance and economy. Four airplanes crashed, two of which ruined the twin trade towers, causing unprecedented losses. The New York Stocked Exchange was forced to be halted for four days, and the financial area in Manhattan a week away. According to the report by New York Municipality, the attack resulted in a loss of 100 billion dollars, direct or indirect.
	Undoubtedly, 9/11 incident makes Americas economy slide downward more sharply than ever before, with a decrease of Don Jones at 8000 points shortly after the attack. In contrast with economic losses, the perspective of markets has become more and more uncertain. Market orientated economy requires our confidence in economic rules. Investors are not willing to release their capital to the ever-changing market; for fear that they could not get the expected profit. 9/11 terrorist attack also causes many psychological problems to the Americans. The instability of society prohibited their trips outside, undermining their anxiety of consumption, which is a heavier attack on the stimulation of economic revival.
	On the other hand, we should not be too pessimistic about the positive effects of the attack. The crackdown on terrorism globally has connected American government with other countries, including China, which is beneficial to the capital market in the world. Furthermore, the war against terrorism stimulates American economy by the dimensional expenditure and cut down of taxes. An open financial market, flexible policy and advantageous information technology foretell vigorous opportunities for economic development.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/332-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-106-we-should-encourage-our-children-to-read-whatever-appeals-to-them",
Essay 1627:
	The famous English philosopher Francis Bacon said, "Reading makes a full man". Reading books can strongly shape your inclination, mature your thoughts, widen your horizon and enrich your personality. Life is limited, but knowledge is boundless. The more books we read, the more knowledge we get. Hence, We should encourage our children to read more books.
	However, books can also be harmful, particularly the pornographic books. Bad books contain evil thoughts. In them, there might be much description about violence, superstition, and sex. Let's suppose that you are in the position of a parent. Would you allow your children to read whatever appeals to them? If your answer to the question is "yes", you are either extremely permissive or just plain irresponsible. If children read bad books, the evil thoughts would poison their mind gradually. They will be dispirited and perhaps commit a crime.
	Good books, on the other hand, teach and help children to do good things. Good books are children's real companions, and they are both instructive and inspiring. Children know past events from history books, study communication by language book, learn space and numbers through mathematics books. In a word, different kinds of good books can give them numerous idea and knowledge.
	Consequently, those who read good books can be inspired to grow healthily, while those who read bad ones will lead a wicked life and meet with miserable failure. So before we encourage our children to read books, we should teach and help them to identify good and bad books.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/331-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-105-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-unisexual-schools",
Essay 1628:
	Boys school and girls school shoot up very rapidly both in foreign countries and at home. Some prefer to send their kids to a unisexual school and some prefer a co-education institute. Many sociologists and educationalists present their views on this issue from  one side or another. However, I believe that both have positive and negative effects.
	Some parents prefer to send their children to boys school or girls schools in the hope that their children can concentrate on study and acquire adequate knowledge and skills because unisexual schools can make out appropriate curriculum and courses for students according to their sexual characteristics. Again, many guardians think that their kids might be spoiled by the contact of opposite sex, especially those  who are  religiously conservative, prefer a unisexual institute. In some girl schools, students have a wider choice of courses such as dancing, music, embroidery and drawing, which can cultivate their feminine elegance and charm. Furthermore, students can devote themselves fully to their study and will not be distracted. Campus love affairs are very common in the current society under the influence of media. Boy schools and girl schools can eradicate contact between different sexes and purify the campus environment.
	Of course, some experts point out that boys school and girls school are not beneficial to the adolescent development of students. They believe that boys or girls are likely to develop their abilities and stimulate their imagination when they are studying with the opposite sexes. Besides, students can cultivate their interpersonal skills. Some other people think that separating boys from girls can cause some psychological problems to youngsters. Meanwhile, this separation affects social progress and lead to sexism. Investigation shows that graduates from unisexual schools are not aware how to get along with their colleagues in their career.
	To conclude, everything has double folds and unisexual schools are no exception. From my point of view, I think the existence of unisexual schools meets the need of some parents. But it is definitely not a paradise for their children.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/330-prevention-is-better-than-cure",
Essay 1629:
	Every day, people are dying from various health-related complexities and diseases due to the lack of proper health education and preventive actions. In many cases, those are preventable diseases. This is why the government should allocate a sum of money from the health budget for health education and preventive measures. I believe that it would offer a substantial number of benefits, and this essay will prove it by analysing the economic point of view of a country and the health aspects of people.
	To commence with, many nations spend an enormous amount of money to treat their citizens who are already sick. This staggering cost would reduce if the state commences effective healthcare education by spending money on the health teaching system. As an example, if the administration explains to their citizens that smoking and drinking are so bad for humans through this educational programme, many people will end up quitting the bad habits. As can be clearly seen from this illustration, the idea may bring colossal economic benefit to the government.
	Secondly, many governments treat patients with several serious diseases like diabetes and heart diseases, and it takes up a large portion of the healthcare budget. However, before these health problems assault citizens, some preventive measures can prevent them. For example, exercise, sports, and proper diet plans can decrease the chances of such diseases to a great extent. Building parks and playgrounds can influence people to do exercise more often which can protect people from developing these diseases. This can be achieved by investing in preventive measures.
	In conclusion, the government should spend money on health education and preventive measures from the health budget because it helps prevent such diseases to become widespread while also reducing the cost of treating sick people. 
Essay 1630:
	It goes without saying that prevention is better than cure. That is why, in recent years, there has been a growing body of opinion in favour of putting more resources into health education and preventive measures. The argument is that ignorance of, for example, basic hygiene or the dangers of an unhealthy diet or lifestyle needs to be combated by special nationwide publicity campaigns, as well as longer-term health education.
	Obviously, there is a strong human argument for catching any medical condition as early as possible. There is also an economic argument for doing so. Statistics demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of treating a condition in the early stages, rather than delaying until more expensive and prolonged treatment is necessary. Then there are social or economic costs, perhaps in terms of loss of earnings for the family concerned or unemployed benefit paid by the state.
	So far so good, but the difficulties start when we try to define what the 'proportion' of the budget "should be, particularly if the funds will be 'diverted from treatment'. Decisions on exactly how much of the total health budget should be spent in this way ' are not a matter for the non-specialist, but should be made on the basis of an accepted health service model.
	This is the point at which real problems occur - the formulation of the model. How do we accurately measure which health education campaigns are effective in both medical and financial terms? How do we agree about the medical efficacy of various screening programmes, for example, when the medical establishment itself does not agree? A very rigorous process of evaluation is called for so that we can make an informed decision.
Essay 1631:
	Present a written argument or case to an educated reader with no specialist knowledge of the following topic.
	To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Essay 1632:
	Firstly, health education has its limit and is not always effective. Over the last four decades, various Western governments have attempted to discourage smokers by placing surgeon’s warnings and revolting pictures and through different awareness campaigns. Yet smokers want to light up. Therefore, it seriously questions the government's endeavours of prevention rather than cure. Nevertheless, through the same period cancer treatment has improved considerably even producing beneficial spin-off discoveries for asthma patients. So, treatment is not only more effective but also has other benefits for the people in a society.
	Secondly, even if prevention has solid evidence of being effective, there is the common cases of patients suffering by pure chance. For example, some people can suffer from lung cancer who have never been a smoker whereas people smoking a pack a day can escape such illness. Therefore, even having followed the government's guidance, there would still be a need for treatment. In addition, if the fund is diverted from research for cures to education, there would be little to help those ‘chance victims’.
	To conclude, the prevention of diseases has failed considerably in many cases whereas proper treatment can help many patients to recover. This is why diverting budgets for health education or preventive measures is not a prudent idea.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/329-childrens-leisure-activities-must-be-educational",
Essay 1633:
	Today, education has become a priority for many parents seeking to secure a good future for their children in this rapidly changing world. They believe that if their children apply themselves and work hard at school, then they will increase their opportunities for going to higher education and eventually getting a good job. Of course, they are right, and as access to the best education and best jobs is becoming more competitive, then it is true that children have to make the best of their study time when they are young.
	However, the parents who do not allow their children sufficient free time for leisure activities outside school hours are misguided. Such activities are far from being a waste of time for the children simply because they are not academic. It is important to remember that children need to develop skills other than intellectual ones, and the best way to do this is through activities such as sports, games and playing with other kids. If they cannot play make-believe games, how can they develop their imagination? How can they learn physical coordination or learn important social lessons about winning and losing if they do not practise any sports? Many children form strong, personal relationships with the friends they play with, and without the opportunity to do this, they could grow up emotionally immature or unformed.
	Finally, I think it is also important to remember that, children need to relax as well as work. If everything they do must have some educational or academic relevance, then they will soon get tired of studying altogether, which is the last thing parents would want.
Essay 1634:
	The manner in which children spent their free time varies greatly from one to another. It is argued that pupils should be involved in tasks  which are related to education in this period. However, I believe that utilising spare interval performing physical activities and watching television will help recuperate their health and concentration.
	To begin with, young people are required to perform body movements for improving their physical abilities. A good illustration for this is the activity planned in the school timetable which always include some periods dedicated to sports. As a result, they are forced to get involved in the activities which require motion resulting in maintaining their fitness level. Thus, it is apparent that doing such exercises will contribute towards the physical development of a child.
	In addition, continuous focus towards studies can result in the problems related to the concentration. For instance, if a student is asked to perform an educational task in his extra time also, there are chances that he might start feeling frustrated with studies. Instead, if he utilises this span for watching television, he can feel relaxed and thereby, he will be more attentive when he starts learning again. Therefore, it is obvious that such breaks will help them to enhance the attention level.
	In conclusion, getting engrossed in activities other than education not only helps to improve the health but also fosters the mental fitness. Thus, this clearly debunks the idea that pupils should only perform tasks which aim towards the acquisition of knowledge in order to avoid wasting time. It is expected that parents will be made aware of the advantages of spending free moments doing other tasks for the children in the foreseeable future.
Essay 1635:
	In the past, children had more leisure time to do various types of activities such as playing games, walking in the parks and gossiping with others. But, now they have no free time due to the fact that this world is becoming more competitive in terms of educational activities. While I cogitate that this policy has some benefits, I believe that children should allow using their free time, and it has more advantages.
	On the one hand, there are some effective conveniences to the student life when they will occupy with study instead of wasting time by playing, walking, and gossiping. Firstly, by spending time with educational activities is one of the significant trends because students can increase their knowledge with this habit. This could result immense advantages to the students whenever they will confront their future life. Secondly, in some countries, it is not easy to get admitted in colleges or universities without sound academic results. So students who want to be a part of tertiary education in these countries need to learn whenever they get any time. For instance, many countries like Sudan have few universities although they have a vast number of students. From the above explanation, it is apparent that children should utilise their time properly.
	On the other hand, it can be argued why kids require free time to spend their own ways. One important point is that the children, who expend their leisure time with play and other extracurricular activities, they can improve their mental as well as physical growth. As an example, if the students play cricket and football, they can learn leadership, responsibility, and so on. Another important point is that the practical knowledge of the students will increase if they involve with some extracurricular activities. As an example, many famous scientists like Einstein was always engaging with extracurricular activities rather than studying. This example makes it explicit that children should permit to use free time in order to increase their intelligence.
	In conclusion, it is consequential that children need to play besides the study in order to increase their basic knowledge. I deem that students should bestow some free time to use their own way that would be augmented to their bright future. 
Essay 1636:
	Children should spend quality time in extra curricular activities apart from the study. Some people think that leisure activities must include educational programs while some others including me, think that we do not require mixing up education with leisure activities.
	According to some people, if children have to learn faster and efficiently, they should include some educational programs as part of their extra activities. They think that by keeping them busy in such kind of activities we can help improving their skills and students become more active in their studies.
	As per my opinion, we should draw a line between the student's education and his extra activities. Both of them should not be mixed up. Students nowadays have lengthy course work to study entire year. They hardly manage time for their extra activities and so if we include educational activities as part of their leisure activities then they may feel bored. They also require changes in their routined-life and by providing some new creative tasks in their free time it is possible to make them refreshed and relaxed. I think that it also helps to improve their skills that actually require for their educational programs.
	Moreover, engaging children in activities like singing, dancing, painting etc. improves their thinking power and creativity. By participating in these types of activities, students can know their inner ability and strength. Also, some of the physical activities like sports and exercise keep them fit and healthy and help them to maintain their physical strength. One of the good examples I want to mention is the summer camp. In summer camps, mostly children explore different sports and creative activities that actually increase their self-confidence and keep them relaxed and cool.
	To draw the conclusion, we should not force children to engage in the leisure activities which we want them to do. Let them decide on their own which activities suit them most.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/328-mass-media-have-great-influence-in-shaping-peoples-ideas",
Essay 1637:
	The mass media have a powerful influence in shaping our lives. We have come to depend on them for information and entertainment, and in doing so we let them affect important aspects of our lives.
	The undeniable usefulness of the media in almost instantly providing information about events around the world is largely taken for granted. But in our dependence on the media, we have allowed them to mould our notions and opinions of events, places and people. Though few of us probably think about it, our conceptions of, say, our elected officials spring from television images and newspaper stories. Most of us will never meet prime ministers or presidents, but anyone who is regularly exposed to the media will have an opinion of them. When it is time to cast our vote, we will make our decision based on how the media portray the candidates. We are similarly swayed by coverage of wars. The media, representing the values of their owners, societies and governments, tend to report wars with a bias; which is the 'good' side and which the 'bad' is determined for us by reporters, editors and commentators, and sure enough the public begins to form opinions that reflect the coverage they see, hear and read in the major media.
	The media are also influential in the way they facilitate the spread of culture and lifestyle. The so-called 'global youth culture', in which one finds young people around the world displaying a common interest in music, clothing styles and films, is an example of the media's enormous sway in this regard. A popular figure such as Michael Jackson would never be so well known were it not for the media's extensive reach into every society on the globe.
	Thus I would argue that the mass media's influence is certainly great. Indeed, technological advancements, such as the Internet, is bringing more forms of electronic media to our homes and workplaces. It is likely that the media's influence will grow even stronger with the passage of time.
Essay 1638:
	“People react according to the perspective they hold in any situation" is a well-known and accepted fact around the world. Of course, perspective is highly influenced by the information people receive through communication channels like TV, radio and newspapers. Hence, as expected, to control the burgeoning of people's thoughts, many countries have regulated the freedom of media.  
	Firstly, nowadays, media plays a vital role in forming our perspectives towards our country's current politics, sports and other issues as it is an important part of our everyday life. Almost all of us use some sort of media to get updated about the world. In fact for many of us, a day starts with a newspaper. Since media persons are highly revered, accordingly, we truly trust the information we receive from media. For example: during the world war II, Hitler used the German media to spread false news about atrocities over German people living in other European countries to mentally prepare everyone in Germany to gear up for war.    
	Secondly, media also shapes our minds to understand each other's cultural values and perspectives. Media brings us views of different people over the same issues and based on the circumstances we react, oppose and even embrace these different views. Also, media brings all of us at a single platform where we learn about multicultural aspects. So, the vital impact of media cannot be disregarded. For example, in a multi-cultural city like Toronto, media plays a prominent role in unifying people from different nations and pumps in nationality.
	In conclusion, I believe media is having a tremendous impact on people's mind and perspectives. Hence, it is equally important to ensure the freedom of media and publication of unbiased news.
Essay 1639:
	In this day and age, mass media have become an epidemic all around the world. So that, people in different ages follow and use them, such as television, newspaper and the internet have become more popular among individuals. On the contemporary worlds, whether the influence of mass media in shaping people's life is a controversial issue. One group of people believes that media have no effects on people's lifestyle, while others are the advocate of many powerful influences of mass media in our lives. I personally agree with the latter group, because of two main reasons which are elucidated below.
	First group claims that mass media cannot have an effect on our decisions and believes; since it has been taken for granted. Of course, they are right to some extent, but I think they considered this issue superficially.
	First of all, mass media have a profound impact on cultures. It causes to eliminate the boundaries of cultures among people and creates globalisation. The globalisation is a good instance to depict the effect of mass media because individuals now can see what is happening in other countries or how they are dressed and how their culture is different. As a result, they usually imitate what others do.
	Secondly, mass media are a source of information. It informed people about daily events or new discoveries. This information sometimes is used to change people's opinion. For example, in a presidential election, the fan of different candidates advertise in media like, television or the internet for them, and absorb attention to elect any person that they want.
	In conclusion, as I mentioned above, the influence of mass media is undeniable, and it can change our beliefs and our ideas.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/327-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-101-many-people-believe-that-television-programs-are-of-no-value-for-children",
Essay 1640:
	Television media has become a pervasive force in the lives of families around the world today. Yet, a central question remains regarding whether watching television is harmful or beneficial for children. An analysis of this question reveals that television programs present three major concerns in the case of children, including depictions of violence, the use of profane language, and the representation of poor moral role models.
	Television programs that portray violence are a paramount concern for parents nowadays. Recent research has shown that children may commit acts of violence because they wish to emulate the behaviour that they see on television. This is especially true when violent acts are committed by well-known action “heroes.” In addition, television programs show cartoon figures, as well as actors, committing violent acts. Using comic situations to depict violent themes causes further problems with the way in which young people view violence.
	Television programs that contain profane or disrespectful language also worry parents with young children. Because censorship laws have relaxed over the past few decades, it has become very common for television programs of each and every kind to show characters expressing impolite, rude, and insulting utterances to one another. Bearing resemblance to the case of portrayals of violence, children unfortunately often try to imitate these actions they watch on their television screens.
	Finally, some parents are upset about the moral behaviour depicted on television. As they struggle to teach their children moral and ethical values, parents might despair about the lack of morals and ethics represented in some of the so-called role models on television. For instance, certain characters not only have no remorse for their immoral actions but also frequently go unpunished by the larger societies.
	Because of these factors, many parents believe that television programs deliver their youth the wrong kinds of messages. The emulation of this behaviour by their children is something they wish to avoid at all costs, and they have accordingly decided to ban television in their households for these reasons.
Essay 1641:
	The world of television has undergone a remarkable change with the advent of new age technology such as dish TVs and cable connection setups. Varieties of programs are being telecast daily and many believe that such TV shows hold no importance for children. However, I am a strong opponent of this belief.
	What is more important is that these channels act as a source of entertainment and stress busters. For example, by watching cartoon network, children enter into the wonder world and feel fresh and energetic. Additionally, some TV channels run talent shows which provide excellent platforms for youngsters to showcase their talent and nourish their skills. Also, by watching television, kids explore new things, animals and places that they couldn't see otherwise. Thriller movies and shows develop their analytic skills in a great way.
	In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that healthy viewing habits and limited screen time can be a positive experience for children.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/326-high-sales-of-popular-consumer-goods-reflect-the-power-of-advertising",
Essay 1642:
	These days, with a hoard of consumer products available in the market, some people have difficulty deciding which products they really need and what they just want to have. Cut-throat competition among brands to win consumers has become widespread, and advertisements play a key role in today’s marketing. However, only advertisement is not what forces people to buy things, their real needs are still a powerful factor.
	Brands apply various marketing techniques to sell their products to consumers, and advertisement is one of them. Tempting adverts on billboards, TV, radio or the web are constantly pushing us to buy things that they claim are the best. This has an impact on consumers' purchasing decisions, but a great proportion of customers are still driven by their needs rather than the adverts they see. Rampant recessions and soaring living costs have also forced people to cut necessary items from their shopping list, let alone have the luxury of buying whatever they wish.  
	Moreover, an intensive growth of sales of popular consumer items has resulted from people's modern lifestyle where they need far more things than their ancestors. The role of advertisement, in this case, is confined to helping people choose the products and not persuading them to buy unnecessary goods. For instance, electronic gadgets and household appliances that people use today were not widespread in the past. They came into our life as a natural requirement from our modern lifestyle and were not just pushed by luring advertisements from different brands. 
	In conclusion, advertisements are a powerful tool for brands and they can affect many purchasers' decisions, but they can not shape what people, as a whole, buy. Modern lifestyle and our real needs are more powerful in this regard.
	(Writen by Hesam Hajheidari)
Essay 1643:
	Nowadays, millions of companies produce billions of consumer products each year, and the role of advertising is quite obvious here - to attract more consumers and make more sales. Adverts are supposed to help customers find goods or services that match their requirements. However, they are also the most powerful tool to shape consumers' purchasing habits in society. I believe that modern commercials are not merely matchmakers of a product and a buyer, rather they actively interfere with buyers' desires, developing artificial needs.
	Advertisements are supposed to guide people to learn about different features of various products and make them conscious of what to expect from a service. However, behind the scene, such adverts create artificial needs in our minds and constantly push us to buy the latest models or new products bypassing our real needs of them. When such advertisements falsely promise us to be more young and attractive if we buy and use their products, we are often the puppet in their hand. Market-full of cosmetics, which have even overgrown the necessary sectors in many countries, just indicate how advertisements shape consumers' buying habits rather than their real needs.
	Unfortunately, promoters of goods and services now control our minds more aggressively. Commercials no longer promote products, but lifestyles. They tell us to purchase things just because they are fashionable or up to date with the image of a successful person. And we buy new cars, gadgets and clothes in order to match this image and not because old ones are no longer usable. 
	In conclusion, I think that high sales of popular commodities in modern society are the result of new promotional technologies and tactful advertisement policy rather than people's real needs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/325-children-today-are-too-dependent-on-computers-and-electronic-entertainment",
Essay 1644:
	Computers have revolutionised the way we learn, travel, work and socialise. The advancement of technology in this domain has given birth to smartphones, tablets, mp3 players and other gadgets that are not only a great source of entertainment but are instrumental in fetching valuable information. One cannot imagine living without them in this modern era. People believe that children are getting more dependent on these electronic devices which are alarming and we should persuade them to participate in other outdoor physical activities. Though this move is laudable, I don't agree fully. This essay will analyse the merits of both views before presenting an opinion.
	People believe that young one of society should take part in physical sports. Proponents of this viewpoint say that physical activities make them mentally strong and physically fit. Playing sports and different games is instrumental in learning the art of teamwork, develops skills vital for competitions and nourish their leadership qualities. Moreover, it develops their stamina, improves metabolism, sharpens their reflexes and braces them to face everyday life challenges. It has been medically proven that the rays emitting from these electronic devices are not good for human vision. Furthermore, one can truly enjoy the game by playing it physically. For instance, football, a game that is different on the field, where it requires stamina and passion compared to a few clicks over the computer. Apart from that, it helps people to socialise, a trend missing in our present generation.
	On the contrary, electronic gadgets like computers, notebooks, smartphones etc play an important role to improve the mental abilities and intellectuality of a child if used wisely. Children can play different mind games that improve their thinking power, decision-making skills and harness creativity and innovation. Moreover, physical games and entertainment can lead to harmful injuries which can be fatal. For instance, parents in Karachi usually prefer their children to spend time at home due to fear of terrorism and abduction for ransom.
	To recapitulate, the aforementioned provides plausible arguments for both views. However, I personally believe that both computers and physical activities are of equal importance and one should focus on maintaining the right balance and getting positive outcomes.
Essay 1645:
	Together with the computerization of our society, there is a rising of public awareness about kids, who spend too much time in front of the personal computer or playing video games. What is best for children to devote their free time to outdoor activities and conventional games or to be at home and entertain themselves with the computer?
	Some types of PC games can be very intelligent and may contain huge educational potential. They can encourage youngsters to develop researching skills and inspire them to learn new things. However, a significant amount of video games is dumb-type, which develops nothing but button-pushing skill. Unfortunately, these games are usually highly addictive. Thus, they can cause a lack of physical activity and even serious mental diseases.
	Outdoor games are often more beneficial for kids’ health. They not only train them in terms of agility and endurance but teach children to socialise and make friends. Moreover, they make them stronger because of fresh air, physical activity and exposure to the sunlight. Therefore, being on the street not always safe. An unattended child can receive trauma or become a subject of crime.
Essay 1646:
	In this sophisticated contemporary world, computers and electronic entertainment have become phenomenal entertainment factors and nowadays everyone has started using these devices. Technology is being used in the daily life of children and they are very much depending on it. This kind of attitude drains the enthusiasms which we get from outdoor games. I totally agree with the idea of playing outside for children.
	Many children spend hours on computers and electronic entertainment because they are addicted to such games and it reduces their interest in playing games outdoors. This trend can eliminate the playing of games and sports as children are not participating in it. In recent years, many online games have started and there we can see all kind of games. Social media are also supporting and developing new games, which many got addicted to. Furthermore, this kind of enthusiastic enjoyment would affect the children’s health and fitness. A healthy body can lead to a healthy mind and helps young kids to study and perform well in life.
	These days technology brings many play station games like football, cricket etc. These games should be played in a playground, not on a digital screen. Playing on computers and other media comes a lack of exercise and it would make them weak and from childhood obesity. These kinds of trend become problems in social life also. Children playing outside with friends can easily mingle with social life. They will make good friends and able to understand society very well, so they can behave as responsible human being. Outdoors games help them to work in groups and show the spirit of teamwork.
	To sum-up, I believe that playing games on grounds help children more than playing games depending on technologies. We should be in touch with the technology and so keeping a certain time for playing games on computers would not harm. But total dependency on computer games is harmful. Indeed playing outdoors helps children to be healthy and fit. It also entertains them and helps to refresh their mind and body.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/324-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-98-governments-around-the-world-are-spending-billions-in-support-of-space-programs",
Essay 1647:
	There is an opinion that countries are spending a lot of their assets on space projects while they should have rather financed in the medical science sufficiently. Spaceships are flying all over the Universe at the time people are dying from AIDS or even flu. Is there any point of throwing money into the outer space?
	On the one hand, humans have not fought so many dangerous and highly contagious diseases so far though many dangerous diseases have wiped away the population of an entire city at a time. Moreover, industrialisation and economic progress have brought new diseases as a result of receiving more comfortable life. They are diabetes, cardiovascular problems, etc. In addition, launching just one space shuttle into the sky requires so many natural resources and brings so many pollutions that it negatively influences ecology a lot. That brings us new health issues, that need additional funding, which could be withdrawn from excessive payments for space research.
	On the other hand, scientists already have started raising funds from commercial pharmaceutical companies. A lot of diseases have been fought in just last 100 years according to many and there is an increase in mankind's life expectancy. Moreover, improved health and elongated life of population lead to a new problem – overpopulation. Space research can help to find a new home for the Earth's inhabitants. The last, but not the least, who knows, there is a chance we could found other planets where a panacea for all diseases is waiting for us or a more advanced civilisation is waiting for us with unimaginable knowledge.
	As for me, I am not a very healthy person and my parents either. However, if there is a one, very small chance, that something exciting will happen and astronauts will meet alien civilisation on other planets, I would not be happy that government is spending money for medicine only. We have an overcrowded planet and we should search for ways of expanding our habitat.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/323-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-97-animals-should-not-be-used-for-the-benefit-of-human-beings",
Essay 1648:
	There is a lot of controversy about using animals for human needs. Animal rights activists are trying to stop all modern and traditional activities, which involve killing animals or cause their suffering. Traditionalists are trying to convince the community that using living creatures for men's needs is natural and cannot be avoided in everyday life. In this essay, we will explore this subject.
	Activists, who defend animal rights, are telling the world that people should not use animals in any way. Moreover, they say that animals should have exactly same rights as humans do. The reason is that people and animals are both living creatures and there shouldn't be any difference in treating them. So-called extreme vegans are refusing to eat any food of animal origin, even milk or honey. They are trying to convince people to do the same using as an argument that killing animals and keeping them in captivity cause their suffering and not civilised.
	Traditionalists disagree with the statement that human should stop killing animals or using them to fulfil their needs. From the very beginning of human civilisation, there is a tradition and vital need to use animals as a food and their parts in traditional crafts. Without proteins and vitamins of animal origin, the human body wouldn't receive all nutrients it needs. Moreover, testing some medicals on animals already helped to fight many diseases people suffered from.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/322-art-should-be-better-funded-by-the-government-but-there-must-be-more-control",
Essay 1649:
	Since prehistoric ages, the Art highlights our lives, adds beauty and happiness and cultivates the taste of culture and uniqueness of the society among people. However, nowadays creative projects have become very expensive and can not bring pay-off to its authors. Some people think that the government should pay for those projects and of course, observe precisely how those funds are being spent and on what type of projects it is being used.
	This is quite obvious that no entity or organisation knows a nation's cultural aspects and needs better than the government. This is why a government can evaluate which sphere of cultural life have the necessity of development. It also achieves its goals of public loyalty by funding a specific field of the Art and by controlling budget by giving maintenance only to projects they are interested in.
	However, funding the Art selectively can lead artists to the lack of freedom in expressing themselves. In other words, then those who have powers, will use the money to regulate cultural life. As a consequence, it can then limit the imagination and put artists into borders they would be scared to cross. Thus, here comes the censorship, which has nothing in common with the main democracy principles. For example, a similar situation emerged in the Soviet Union, where the government controlled the Art and therefore the only career an artist could pursue is praising the Communist Party by his creations. This shows how artworks can become political works when they are very strictly controlled.
	As an alternative of letting a government control spending money on the Art, a non-governmental independent organisation could be established. It must consist of the best cultural activists from a country. This would add a certain level of budget control and would guarantee that there are no limits for the arts and artists.
	To conclude, I believe that funding the Art is one of the main tasks of a state, but the purpose of it should be the development and enhancement of the arts, not making it serving government's political needs.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/321-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-95-wild-animals-have-no-use-in-the-21st-century-and-trying-to-preserve-animals-now-is-just-wastage-of-money",
Essay 1650:
	It is a ridiculous idea that wild animals have no place in the world because we have entered into the 21st century. I do not believe that planet Earth exists only for the humans and modernization means we need to be more selfish. I would rather say that 21st century should be the right time to make the planet Earth livable for all species. Letting the wild animals get extinct would be one of the worst steps in the human history and if we do not take initiatives to save those already endangered species, future generations would remember us as a selfish generation.
	Having said that, we waste millions of dollars on tobacco each day and I would say this is a waste of money. Spending money to protect wild animals is a prudent investment as scientists and ecologists agree that those habitats are important for the human survival. For example, to preserve the wild animals we need to save the forests, plant more trees and stop exploiting nature. This, in turns, saves the human species from being endangered. The human kind should maintain the balance of the ecosystem and invest money in protecting nature and wild creatures is rather a good investment.
	To conclude, the planet is shared by all the species and as the most intelligent species, as we claim ourselves to be, we need have rather great responsibilities to protect wild animals for our own benefits.
Essay 1651:
	The natural inhabitants of wild animals and their way of life have been greatly affected by us and in my opinion, we should try to take and initiate every possible step to save these wild animals.
	The 21st century is the era of technological advancement, but this technological advancement does not mean that we have to alter the way of life. The lives of these wild animals have been endangered because of human and some species are on the edge of complete distinction and if necessary steps are not taken immediately, many of these species will be lost forever. Humans can't give life to any animal so they do not have the right to let them be destroyed.
	To keep the balance of the ecosystem, each species of the animal kingdom plays important roles and the existence of one species largely depends on upon another. To say that wild animals have no use for us is just a selfish statement and obviously, we should try to keep the natural balance for our own benefit. Many useful domestic animals have evaluated from the wild species and how can we even define a wild animal since they live in their very natural environments? Wild animals even play many important roles for us directly. For example,  many wild animals kill lots of rats and save the farmers' crops from being eaten or destroyed by those rats.
	In conclusion, we must try to preserve all the endangered and natural animals and as human, we should feel responsible to ourselves not to let any species be lost forever.   
	(This model answer has been prepared by the site developer. However, please note that this is just one example out of many possible answers.)
Essay 1652:
	It is sometimes argued that wildlife has been declining in recent years at a startling pace and that deploying any scheme to protect endangered animals would be wastage of money. However, I completely disagree with this idea.
	In one hand, it can be argued that wild animals are becoming increasingly extinct in present decade .One of the grave reasons for this decline is ever increasing numbers of human on the earth which have fueled up the demands for more houses and roads. At the same time, the need of self-sufficiency in food for the human has led to a destruction of natural habitats. So depletion of green spaces ends up with decreased number of wild animals.  For instance, chemical farming is required to meet the demand for cheaper food at any cost, and these practices are driven by greater demands for natural habitats such as woodland, forests and hills to be converted into farmlands. Urbanisation is another big factor with a greater number of people tends to live in cities and more space needed to extend cities at the expense of removing wild habitats.
	Nevertheless, I believe that conservation of wild creature is crucial for the human survival as well as for a healthy ecosystem and that it is worthwhile to utilise recourses to protect them. If we do not bother to deploy any targeted scheme to save animal lives, then biodiversity and ecosystem will suffer. As a result, it will have a devastating effect on the food chain for all living creatures. So the government should take more initiatives to carry out different strategies to ensure the survival of wild animals. Establishment of more zoos, as well as protecting natural areas, should also be ensured by the government and the law enforcing authority.
	In conclusion, I would argue that wild animals are the vital part of our planet and they should be protected at every possible cost.
Essay 1653:
	Planet earth is a motherland of wildlife, marine animals, and human beings and so on. For the past few decades, uncontrolled hunting of wild creatures has resulted in the extinction of few species which is very alarming. Few people believe that protecting wildlife in this modern era in not beneficial and I don’t agree with this assertion. This essay will analyse the importance of wild animals on earth.
	Firstly, wild animal’s helps in maintaining the ecosystem of earth, without which existence of human race would be jeopardised. Their existence not only adds beauty to nature but it’s vital for the growth of flora and fauna. For instance, waste produced from animals contains chemical compounds that are of great value for the growth of plants and other forestries.
	Moreover, these wild beasts attract tourism which is instrumental in increasing revenue and improving the economic condition of a country. For instance, wildlife safari in Africa helps local people to earn their livelihood and raise their families.  They can also be used to educate children and help scientists to study their way of living and behaviours which can unfold mysteries and to validate different theories presented in ancient times by different scientists like Darwin.
	Furthermore, these wild species serves as a source of experimental subjects which could potentially result in the discovery of important medicines and life-saving vaccines. For instance, recently scientists conducted a research over the venom of python and they believe that it can be used to treat neurological disorders in human beings.
	To recapitulate, the aforementioned statements provide plausible arguments in favour of preserving wild habitats and the importance of maintaining the balance of life on earth. Every possible effort should be made at the global level to save animals for our future generations.
Essay 1654:
	Since the explosion of population, humans have taken a large amount of space and resource on earth. Some social scientists are convinced that it is pointless to spend money on preserving wild animals, as it might not have sufficient places for them to survive in the 21st century. Personally, I am inclined to the view that we should give priority to protecting wild animals over any other things.
	First and foremost, it is absurd to argue that it is not necessary to protect the wild animals. They play an essential role on earth and we get together to share the world. If they were extinct in the world, it would break the balance of the ecosystem. For instance, it is common to see that if we over hunted sparrows, pests would cause severe disasters in the agriculture field. As a result, without preserving animals, the living environment of mankind would suffer more challenges.
	In addition, I strongly believe that there are still a plenty of room for wild animals to live in the world. More specifically, there are many environments are not suitable for people to live, while those places are animals’ ideal paradise. Moreover, if humans protected  animals‘ habitats，they can create a better environment for us. For example, rainforest could produce oxygen, absorb the carbon dioxide and make climate stability.
	On the other hand, the opponents may argue that it is not necessary to prevent the wild animals. However, this view does not seem justifiable because it fails to take into account the validity of the two reasons noted above.
	In conclusion, after all, the above factors considered, it could be argue that protecting the ecosystem and the letting us having more comfortable environment are the main reasons of the wild animals' conservation. It is better to live side by side with wild animals and make our life peaceful and stability.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/320-is-the-traditional-music-of-a-country-more-important-than-the-international-music",
Essay 1655:
	Kinds of music people listen nowadays are of different tastes and types. For instance, modern international pop and rap music, as well as classical traditional country songs all, vary from each other and people listen to them with great interests. This is because music has been part of our daily lives even in the ancient times. In this essay, reasons on why music is necessary for every Filipino people and  the importance of the Philippine traditional folk music over foreign songs that young Filipinos and Filipinas always hear will be discussed.
	Music is a vital part of every Filipinos' lives. Firstly, Philippine folks considered it to be one of the most popular and ancient modes of human expressions. It features largely in all histories and all cultures and indeed has been one of the main ways of passing on cultural traditions to new generations of the country. Secondly, because of this, many people view music as a positive influence for the societies. This influence on individuals is wholly beneficial as it is a long-established way of communicating and helping us understand the whole range of human emotion and experience in a more spiritual language than words can represent.
	However, the classical music traditions of the Philippines are not necessarily part of the music many Filipinos and Filipinas experience today. In the modern world today, most of the country's young people constantly exposed themselves to loud modern foreign songs as a result of globalisation via the Internet. But I think that it is more important for young people of the country to learn traditional music to enable them to know the origins of our Philippine ancestors.
	In conclusion, I think that we need traditional music because it is an integral part of the human expression that we cannot really separate from our lives even if there are the various evolution of modern music we tend to listen every day through the web nowadays such as American rap songs and Korean pop music.  
Essay 1656:
	It’s often said that “music is like magic” and it is indeed true, since music work as a divine magic for us. Music, for many of us, is a way of living. There are many who can’t live a life without listening music each day. Music is the foods of a soul to them.
	Music impresses us, inspires us, tells an untold story, remedy us and let us understand others. There are many different types of music almost in each language of the world and they vary from religious type to anthem and even hard rock or rap. The listeners of the music decide what to listen and it greatly depends on upon mood, time, level and age. But I believe no matter what type of music one listens, we need to listen and preserve our own traditional music hence traditional music says what we really are. There are lots of importances of music in our life. Music let us know the position of a nation against war and music it's a message that reaches to all for all over the ages. Music refreshes ourselves and inspires us to do something.   
	With the modern communication facility, satellite channels and the internet, people today hear music from other parts of the world. Teenagers are greatly influenced by the western music and they even don’t like the traditional or country music. It’s very natural that generation will follow their own trends and choices and will accept only what they feel like to accept, but traditional music bear the old history, lifestyle and tradition of a country. And as part of education, everybody should know about his/her own tradition. So we should listen to the music that attracts us and really inspires not matter where are they from what whatever their genre are, but we should not ignore our own traditional music.   
Essay 1657:
	Music nowadays has turned to be an activity by which many of us relax. Many people feel so much relaxed by listening music and while others find themselves more comfortable with playing music more often. Music is used to cheer up your mood and state of mind. You feel internal peace and its help you forget all your tensions.
	The World is divided into many different cultures and traditions. Every part of the world has its own unique identity. Different countries of the world and people of different countries have their own likes and dislikes. Similarly, when we talk about music, it also differs from region to region. While subcontinent people are more attracted towards classical music which is often a slow rhythmic music and people of western people like the fast track music because classical music is the part of the culture of the subcontinent and mostly on different occasions and on different events people prefer classical music over rock music.
	But as the world is forwarding fast day-by-day and advancement are taking place in every field, same is true for the music. In music nowadays there are different kinds of music introduced which are also good for listeners.  
Essay 1658:
	Music has been one the most popular aspects of the art and undeniably has a special place in our daily lives. We mostly listen to different types of music when we go anywhere from our houses to shopping malls, festivals and parties and it seems that music is an inseparable part of various environments. In other words, living one day without listening to music is very hard and perhaps because of this reason, music has been considered as the food of the mind no matter listening to traditional types or international ones.
	The reason that we need music is embedded in its effect on our feelings. In fact, music easily puts us in different moods and makes new frames for our minds in different situations. For example, it gives us energy when we are exercising or makes us more relaxed when we have a dinner party with friends. Sometimes it’s the best way to be awake when we are driving a long distance and sometimes it opens the horizon for us to remind some sweet memories of our lives. Therefore, music can break the monotony of life, recharges our batteries and makes our favourite atmosphere in each second of living.
	However, there have been lots of debates about the importance of traditional music or international one, music is just a tasty matter and no measure can be taken to show the importance of different types of music. Put another way, people prefer to listen to their favourite list and choose something which can response to their needs. So anyone would be attracted to a kind of music composition, music genre or lyric and it’s not logically to encourage people to listen to a specific sort of music or opening which music is suitable and more important.
Essay 1659:
	Globalisation and information technologies made wonderful changes in music. Most of the music are internationally famous even if it in a particular language. There are strong reasons behind the importance of traditional music and modern music. However, I believe that country music is more important for everyone than the world music because it shows culture and dignity of each country.
	Firstly, music has a vital role in everyone’s life. Some people hear the music for their happiness but for others in their sorrows because some kinds of songs have a psychological impact and it can change their mood. Secondly in many vocations like marriage, festivals and cultural programs music have an inevitable part.  For example: in some regions of India having a culture of using songs for their funeral.  Not only that, new research has shown that music has a curing effect for some kind of physical and mental illness.
	When thinking about the values of traditional and international music, country music is used for most of the cultural activities and festivals but international music used only in some occasions like club functions and parties. Traditional music shows the cultures, meaning and value a society or country. In the same way, it shows the history of the people. Most of the music is meaningful. For instances, some festivals in India, like Onam, Deepavali, having its own songs. People use these songs only in this occasions.
	In view of international music, it can use only for happiness. Most of the songs are fast track music. It is using in birthday parties and disco clubs. People do not even think about its words or meaning. They dance according to the beats of songs.
	To conclude, music has its own value. Songs are measured according to its importance. Even people are living in abroad they will not forget their own traditional music because it shows their culture and believes. So, in my opinion, traditional music is more important than global music.
Essay 1660:
	Each country has its own unique music style. For instance, Opera and Jazz music are famous in western countries and on the other hand, India and Spain are famous for classical music style for salsa dancing.
	Globally information technology has made tremendous progress. Information technology has invented numerous sophisticated devices to play music anywhere anytime. People tend to listen to music depending on their mood. They tend to listen to sad music if they feel down or sad. It has become a popular trend to listen to music while doing Yoga or doing exercise in the gymnasium.
	Listening music while doing sports activities can boost energy level and brings the passion of sports in mind. Music is kind of daily activity nowadays and is considered as the food of souls according to many people. Furthermore, some students play music while solving math equations. According to students, math is only the subject which can be studied while playing music. On the other hand, for example in the huge shopping centres, the background music is played 24/7. Because people love shopping and walking in the malls.
	However, the traditional music of any country is very important and plays a vital role. For instance, traditional music expresses that what we belong to and what is our culture. A country is judged by its heritage and traditional music. If a country is rich of traditional music then it is possible that it can be popular around the world.  But nowadays, young children are addicted to listening international music. They are not even aware of their culture and traditional music. New generation is following the Western music style. It is the responsibility of parents to give them the knowledge of their traditional music.
	In the conclusion, actually, everyone has a perception of listening to his/her favourite music. But in most countries, people avoid taking interest in traditional music. Therefore, most of the countries are losing the value of their culture and traditional music. At last, the main responsibility of parents is to aware children to listen and introduce traditional music to the world.
Essay 1661:
	In recent years, the world has seen many kinds of music and the broad category of music are mainly international and traditional music. Music has diversified functions for every region in the world. Why we do need music? Because music can inspire us, represents our emotion and can remedy our wounds. In my opinion, the traditional music has more significance than the International music which people listen to everywhere in this era. Traditional music has far greater functions and obvious roles than the international music. I will explain some reasons for my belief in the following paragraphs.
	First, the traditional music has become the important part in many cultural ceremonies, such as wedding and death ceremony. For example, in a wedding ceremony, we need traditional music when a couple each other. Without music, this ceremony will not be complete. Secondly, nowadays we still use traditional music as a medium for communication and praising God or other people. For instance, sometimes we use music to praise our creator. Thirdly, every country or region has a distinguished genre for identity. Music also has the aim to differentiate a country or a region from others. For example, Indonesia has dangdut and keroncong music and these music have become Indonesian cultural identity.
	In addition, we need traditional music to accompany traditional dancing. In Indonesia, we have a lot of traditional dancing and each dancing has music to escort to manage every motion. For example, traditional music which accompanies jejer dance is different from candra dewi dance, because the music has to be suitable with every motion in each dance.
	Although nowadays people often listen to international music, but it does not mean that this music has more important functions than the traditional music, while international music is mostly used by people for entertain purposes traditional music represents our identity and culture.
Essay 1662:
	Music can be presented in several ways and variations that we can observe in the world these days. Many people consider music as part of their life and get motivation and inspiration from the music they listen to. However, some people argue on the significance of music in our life. Many others compare the importance of folk music and global music in term of people’s preference to listen. Furthermore, people tend to enjoy life better when they put music to listen to their daily activity. In my view, music can bring some advantages to improve people’s life and local music and international music has both advantages to our life.
	In every place, music and people are hard to be separated. They love music because it can revive stress and bad feeling that we usually have. Moreover, the rhythm of the music that is playing triggers our body to feel free and relax each moment. In addition, different varieties of music are available for everyone. For example, people can feel free listening to soft, classic and loud music based on their choices.
	Another issue of this essay is whether traditional music or popular world music has more importance. Traditional music has an important as an identity of a nation. Indeed, every citizen has to maintain this legacy for their generation. Nonetheless, global music is surely good to be heard regarding on people’s passion. In other words, none can be forced to stop listening to popular music because it is their right to choose any kinds of music that are suitable for them.
	Hence, every person has the choice to listen to many genres of music. It describes how music becomes so popular today. In fact, music just serves benefits depend on individuals’ preference about it. Folk or international music contributes to aid someone through their life.
Essay 1663:
	Nowadays, contemporary lifestyle and advancement in technology have triggered the popularity of international music. Traditional music, on the other hand, is the symbol of tradition, values and history of a society. Although both of them are important for people, I believe that more emphasis should be given to the traditional music as identity, unique tradition and culture of a nation will be lost without promoting traditional music.
	Evidently, music is a form of communication and prayer. In many communities and religions, music is still used to eulogise the God. Our ancestors devoted songs to praise the Almighty as a mean to deliver thanks and pray for their needs. For example, Japanese people celebrate the wedding ceremonies with traditional songs that convey their thanks and appeals to the God. Moreover, musicians use music for communicating with other people. They reveal their emotions through poetic and harmonious lyrics which are expressed in beautiful melody in order to pass their emotions and messages. The message contained in a song is often believed by many and is accepted by the society as it inspires people. Music touches our heart, cures our wounds, and gives us motivation.  
	Recently, due to globalisation, easy access to foreign TV & radio stations and widespread use of the internet, international music has become quite common.  International music is pretty entertaining, has a great variety and represents the contemporary issues. However, they are often fleeting and have less importance in many cultures. For instance, rap or rock songs might attract a lot of teenagers but they do not represent the true identity of many cultures. There are inevitable requirements of traditional music to express the true joys and traditions. Traditional music is regarded as the remarkable legacy from our ancestors.  Since traditional music reflects the genuine emotion and represents the tradition and way of life, they have more importance in our culture and society.
	To sum up, international and traditional music both have important roles in communicating, healing and entertaining people, but in my opinion, traditional music is more pivotal to keep and represent the genuine values of a society. Therefore, no matter how much we enjoy international music, we should foster the traditional music as much as possible.
Essay 1664:
	Music is the language of the world and it presents the unique tradition and custom of a tribe, society or nation. People listen to different types of music with great interests because it inspires us, refreshes our mind, heals our wounds, motivates us and so on. However, it is arguable that whether the traditional music of a nation plays more crucial roles than the modern music that is popular worldwide. From my point of view, the former one is more important than the latter one for the reason that it can reflect the cultural identity and the history of a nation.
	First of all, no one can deny that most of the people love to listen to music as it inspires us, relaxes our mind and let us forget our anxiety and tension. For example, a person may get stressed out and tired when he returns from the office and the music can work as the magic to remove his tiredness. A growing number of people these days listen to music while commuting and this is quite effective to enjoy the time even on a busy road and amid of a tiresome journey. Rich lyrics can enhance our intellectual level and it is often true that a person could be judged by the types of music he listens to. Music is a global language that connects people, protests unjust, inspires people and creates a unique form of entertainment which is not only refreshing but also educational. 
	Traditional music, itself, represents traditions and customs of a nation. Behind the music, there are history, story of a nation and even religious lessons. In addition, traditional music can connect people with their cultural heritage, left from ancestors. Hence, it plays the vital role and bears the indigenous practices and dignity of a nation. Thus, we must preserve our own traditional music as they could tell the history and life of our ancestors as well as what we really are. Despite that, many people chose to listen to the international music. It can bring different nations together and teach lessons that were unknown to a person. The music is different and can suite with a person's choice.
	In conclusion, traditional music is much more important than the modern international music which can be heard in every part of the world. Youngsters should give their heart to their own traditional music to keep their cultural heritage alive.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/319-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-93-decide-to-follow-the-customs-of-the-new-country-others-prefer-to-keep-their-own",
Essay 1665:
	People may choose to keep their old traditions from their native country or to accept new ones. Keeping the old customs will help one to overcome the cultural shock and the change of the environment. From the other side, accepting the new traditions will help one to adapt and make new friends with residents. In this essay, I will give different reasons why people decide to follow the customs of the new country or to keep their own customs.
	If one is from the country with strong and old traditions, I think it will be rather difficult for him to adapt to the new customs and moreover to reject his own. That is why some people from the same country try to live together and to create their own community where the old traditions are kept. They can not break the customs that were created by their ancestors. For example, some nations are restricted in certain kinds of food by their traditions. So, they do not go to the restaurants unless their traditional food is served there. Some nations according to their customs have to wear certain types of cloth because their religion tells them to do so.
	From the other side, if one is from the country with traditions similar to ones of the new country it will be easy for him to adopt and to follow the customs of the new place. He will not feel much difference. Probably, the most difficult part of his relocation will be to accustom to the new climate.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/318-sense-of-competition-in-children-should-be-encouraged",
Essay 1666:
	Nowadays, the purpose of education has changed in Korea. There are some People who think that competition in children should be made, also others believe that children who are taught to co-operate as well as become more useful adults. There are advantages and disadvantages for both of the arguments.
	To begin with, what is good if a sense of competition m children is made? They could develop themselves more and more as they learn and study a lot to win the competition. To prove this, in Korea, it is popular - even common now - to have a tutor who comes to student's house to teach extra pieces of study with paying a lot of money. They learn faster than what they learn at school. Furthermore, during the vacations, students study abroad to learn English for a month instead of revise school work. If they have experiments such as study abroad, it is one of the greatest plus points to go to the famous well-known high-school. Moreover, there are four big school exam and two national examinations to test students' level of studies. Generally, only the highest 40% can go to the good quaternary high schools and colleges. Children learn as much as they can, to win the competition to obtain good quality schools.
	On the other hand, as they are busy to enter the schools and study individually with their own tutors, there are problems. They become selfish. They become careless and don't help others a lot if it is about studies. There will be no co-operations for them. Then, why are there companies for many people to work in? Each of them is clever, however, there are weak parts and strong parts for each person. To co-operate is to improve this part. People talk and listen to what others thinking of and learn. That could also be a great opportunity to learn instead of learning alone with one teacher.
	In conclusion, I strongly agree with that children should be taught to co-operate rather than compete. Nobody is perfect. People learn together, work together to develop each other. Therefore, I want parents and teachers to educate children concentrating on co-operation, not compete and ranking them.
Essay 1667:
	There is too much debate about whether children should be learned to be more competitive or cooperative members of society. In my opinion, both behaviours are important and cooperation is more important than competition.
	On one hand, as we live in the very competitive society, we need to teach our children the sense of competition in a positive way. The most obvious advantage to encourage competition among children is that it makes them more creative and open minded and opens the doors for better future opportunities for them. For illustration, children work hard in the study because they compete with other classmates to receive high marks, this will help them to get a very good job in the future. Moreover, they become more independent and rely on themselves because they know that nobody else will be there to do their duties.
	On the other hand, I believe that cooperation is mandatory to be encouraged for many reasons. Firstly, cooperation helps children to learn from each other. For example, when I was at school team, I learned how to play table  tennis  with  my friends and we learn a lot  of skills from each other and when we play in the final round with other school teams,  we get a very good score in the final. Secondly, cooperation teaches children the skills linked to sharing, as a result, they become a kind member of society. Finally, cooperation is the key component for better personality as well as prevent from individuality.
	To sum up, both cooperation and competition have their own advantages. However, I tend to think that cooperation should be encouraged more in children.
Essay 1668:
	There are various views of people on upbringing their children. Talking about competition, some say that it must be inculcated in children while some argue cooperation plays a better role. In this essay, both these contrasting views will be discussed and a conclusion will be made.
	Those who believe that competition is necessary to present the following arguments. Firstly, competition motivates the children and encourages them to do better rewarding the one who stands at the top. Secondly, healthy competition maintains excitement and zeal in learning. Otherwise, children may find the session too boring. Thirdly, these are places where competition is of utmost necessity. For example, in sports, it is always necessary to come to a conclusion of who wins and who loses. According to the opinions given by this group of people, positive competition among children is more beneficial.  
	On the other hand, some highlight the negative impacts that competition might bring and so choose to inculcate cooperation in their kids. According to them, when kids compete, they might use alternative ways for winning like cheating. Sometimes, they might be highly de-motivated if they are constantly losing despite persistent efforts. In contrast, by working or learning cooperatively in groups, children learn attributes as respect, exchange of help, tolerance etc. They also opine that the lessons learned in childhood lasts for the entire life and the children who always compete would do so for the rest of their lives and this would include both the positive and negative competitions.
	Thus, in accordance with my view, both cooperation and competition are essential for children in their own place. The guardians have to choose one appropriately according to the situation and context in order to ensure their kids learn correct moral values and ethics.
Essay 1669:
	In our society, many people believe that competition is a vital component in establishing a positive personality and behaviour. Parents for instance, always say that life is a constant battle and in order to become successful, training children to become competitive in the early stage of their lives will be helpful. However, some argue that competition is not that beneficial and might cause negative behaviours to children. In this essay, I will closely examine both views, and would state my own opinion regarding the matter.
	On the first side of the argument, people argue that competition is advantageous. In their point of view, structuring an environment under a context of competition will be challenging and will establish the need to strive and work harder to attain a particular goal that many aims. Therefore, competition enhances motivation and gives a sense of fulfilment. For instance, children in nursery schools join different contests and compete with other children. They try to do their best and maximises their resources to win the competition because of the reward that they may get from their parents or teachers.
	On the other hand, some people believe that the drawbacks outweigh the positive effects of competition and teaching the child to cooperate are better. They explain that cooperation allows children a chance to understand and adjust to the needs of other children, hence, training them to become more sensitive individuals in the future. For example, in our home, I have never felt that my mum encouraged competition between me and my younger sister. She always says that each has her own unique talents and skills that should be enhanced and be shared to one another. Hence, every time that we need to do some task, we would rather help one another than to compete.
	In summary, establishing a competitive and cooperative environment has its own merits. However, in my opinion, teaching children to cooperate is more beneficial in honing a mature and useful individual.
Essay 1670:
	In today's modern world, most of the people around the globe lead a competitive lifestyle as they need to secure a decent job with a high payment. Therefore, there are a handful of people who assert that there should be competition among the children so that they will reach their goals in the future. However, some people are of the opinion that children should be taught to co-operate as they have higher tendency to become a useful citizen once they know about cooperation. Hence, it is important for us to examine both sides of the views before reaching a reasonable conclusion.
	Admittedly, if there is a sense of competition among the children, they are stimulated to work harder when acquiring knowledge in school. It is, possibly, due to the reason that they want to score better in examination than their classmates. With the existence of competition among children, they are highly likely to perform well in school as they will always compare their academic progressions with others. To illustrate, during a quiz or a test, the children will probably try harder to solve the questions as they love the feeling of being praised by their teachers and friends. Thus, with the existence of competition among children, they will have more momentum in studying and achieving success.
	On the other hand, it is believed that children who know how to co-operate with others will attain success and contribute more to the society. In school, if the teachers teach them about the moral value of cooperation, it will further encourage them to have good teamwork between children learn how to respect others' opinions. It, indirectly, helps them to develop the crucial interpersonal skills which play an indispensable role in their studies and prospective jobs. Hence, any misunderstanding can be avoided among the child which is the key to achieving their aspirations both in their studies and their works.
	In conclusion, I believe that both the competition and cooperation should exist among the children as each of them helps the young children to become a more knowledgeable and useful individual who can contribute endlessly to the society. As a consequence, our nation will surely continue to prosper and flourish in the decades to come.
Essay 1671:
	Some individuals believe that it is necessarily important to motivate children to be more competitive to perform better. Yet, it seems to others that children, who are supplied (exposed) by the spirit of group-working, will be able to be more useful people in their life later than those who presume that competition is a priority. This essay will discuss both of these opinions through the following paragraphs.
	First, citizens may think that the more competition someone faces, the faster the growth of his or her cognitive values would be. This idea can be a better consideration to boost and to explore people’s hemisphere to be more innovative in their lifetime as they are encouraged to be the first and have a passion for defeating other's idea. Being the best student in class, for instance, is one of the real examples. Students, who always get the first place, will try to maintain their position by expanding their competitiveness through study harder than others.
	However, living in the real community, besides competitiveness, people are also required to be cooperative as their faith as social creatures that have to engage or be involved with other people to achieve a goal. Individuals, who can be a good cooperative people, are those who have been trained to do a team-work, moreover since their childhood rather than those who always competitive. My uncle, Rian, is a real figure. He is always involved in a community work and acts collaboratively with others because he used to do that since he was a little child and as the result, their goals are mostly achieved easier.  
	Someone who always excels in education and jobs is not necessarily a person with competitive mentality. Helpfulness and sharing with other expand the knowledge we gather. It is a good human quality to help other rather than competing. Children who are learned to share, often become better persons that those who always compete.  
	All in all, being competitive is considerably important to enhance knowledge, yet the communal life needs cooperative people as well. Thus, individuals are cordially suggested to balance both competitiveness and cooperativeness.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/317-study-a-subject-that-you-have-never-had-the-opportunity-to-study",
Essay 1672:
	If I would have the opportunity to study a subject I do not know yet I would choose to study the outer space. I have a Bachelor degree in Management and I like to have the possibilities to work in this field. However, I was always interested in the space exploration.
	Another important aspect of studying the space is that scientists are always about to make new discoveries there and they do them. I think it is a great feeling to give people new knowledge, opportunities and experience. Scientists often find and study new constellations, they launch satellites and monitor them from land.
	When I was a child I collected stamps and cards with a space subject and I dreamed that someday I would be able to make a flight into an outer space. However, my plans changed but my dream has not vanished. I believe that in a few years people will be able to visit the space just like they go to a museum now.
	To sum up, I think that studying a space would give me self-realization, more opportunities to grow and more goals to achieve.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/316-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-90-the-age-of-information-technology-has-taken-a-lot-of-people-by-surprise",
Essay 1673:
	Our highly informatics era became quite a shock for many of us. At the time one part of society uses new means of information very actively, other people stay in the dark without any chance to make an approach to understanding new technologies. There is a raising awareness of does this problem have a potential danger of slicing the society into two parts which would never understand each other.
	It is the fact that many of everyday activities became available for computer users only. For example, if you are a university student, you are supposed to submit your term paper as typed and printed document, they no longer accept hand-written papers. Furthermore, some manufacturers do not distribute information leaflets but give a website address on their products’ packs, thus only the Internet users can have an access to product details. The last but not the least, the computer skills became a crucial requirement for employment in urban areas.
	Meanwhile, inhabitants of rural areas do not need new means of acquiring information. Their work and everyday activities do not demand using computers. For example, a farmer can use radio to hear the news and ordinary mail to communicate.
	Taking into account the fact not every citizen can use new information technologies, governments would not change the traditional ways of interaction with their people. It is highly unlikely people would no longer have a possibility to vote by filling papers by hand or do other activities, important for their citizenship.
	Informatics of society affected those, who have a need for instant information exchange. People, whose lifestyle do not require any haste in communication have an opportunity to use traditional ways of it. I am assured that as long as the situation does not make others change their way of life against their will, there is no risk of receiving serious social problems.
Essay 1674:
	Information technology has changed the world we live in. The advent of computers and the internet in daily life has changed the way we communicate and do some of the basic tasks. While the younger generation has quickly embraced the technology in their everyday life, a large fraction of the older generation is struggling to understand and use the technology.
	With the introduction of information technology, things have changed rapidly over the last two decades. E-mail and instant messaging have replaced snail mail and telegraph. Twitter and news websites have replaced television and radio as the preferred source to quickly disseminate news. Common tasks such as booking tickets for a movie or travel can be done in minutes using a smartphone. Money transfers can be made in seconds using online banking.
	The younger generation has picked up the technology very quickly. Using a computer is now taught in the primary school itself so that the children can learn the skills that later will be helpful in every arena of life. A large fraction of the older generation, however, struggle using technology in daily life. This is because, unlike youngsters, older people could not learn computers. They had little time and motivation to learn and embrace technology in their daily life.
	Today, the world is moving towards a polarised society, where one group of people uses and depends on technology for their daily tasks, while the other group prefers working the traditional way. This difference in the way we live our daily life is eventually creating a divide in the society, which must be addressed for sustaining social harmony.
Essay 1675:
	In today's contemporary world, technology has changed many aspects of our lifestyle and thus every work has been computerised. A group of people believes that everyone cannot learn how to use these devices and this eventually divides the society into two different sides. However, I personally disagree with them because of some main reasons, which are elucidated below.
	It is true that the speed of technology was on the increase in two last decades, but it prevails rapidly too. For example, my grandmother who has 80 years old, and she is uneducated and can use a cell phone as much as she needs, such as sending a message or dialling every mobile number. I mean, today, technology is not just for the young generation or people with high level of education.
	Furthermore, nowadays, we are witnesses of technology even in remote cities and villages. All of them have an access to two most important devices, the internet and the computer because everyone can buy these tools in reasonable price or even by monthly instalments. In addition, today children are taught in primary school to know how to use computers. As a result, if they cannot afford to purchase these gadgets, they will learn in school.
	While, there are many individuals who prefer to live in traditional ways. However, these differences cannot create divided society, because they choose this way for living themselves.
	All in all, from what has been discussed I pen down saying that technology is spreading all around the world and everyone can use it easily.
Essay 1676:
	The use of information technology has significantly increased in developing over the last few years. It has dramatically improved people’s lives with its undeniable benefits. Some people have welcomed information technology wholeheartedly and they are applying this in their daily work routine to improve quality and reliability. However, others seem to be reluctant while adapting this and they are confined with old and traditional ways of doing things. I believe that information technology can greatly improve people lives and gradually all people start using it because of its numerous advantages.
	There is no doubt that information technology has changed the way people used to work and live earlier. Nowadays, all the offices, universities and schools are equipped with computers, internet and tablets to avail the maximum benefits of this technology. Furthermore, people are more interactive now by using the internet as a source of medium for communication that is more reliable and cheaper in all ways. It is not uncommon that many senior citizens all around the world are using emails as they find it more convenient. Thus technological advancements and benefits will be embraced by all generations and there is no chance that it will create significant social problems.
	However, some people still like conventional ways of work and do not like to change themselves according to the need of time. They like to go libraries instead of using the internet that has a large database of information. They prefer to write letter despite it slow nature of communication. But that won’t last forever. People will eventually adopt the technology and will do things faster and more accurately and easily.
	To sum up, I would like to say that the use of information technology is more prevalent in modern societies because of its numerous positive effects. Only a few numbers of people are unwilling to change themselves but I am sure there will be dramatic shift soon in their opinion, as they start getting more and more benefits out of it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/315-financial-education-should-be-mandatory-component-of-the-school-program",
Essay 1677:
	It is an obvious fact that financial aspects are a major part of daily life, as an adult and even as a young individual. Each and every one of us has to make financial decisions concerning recreation, health, education and more. The question is whether to start with financial education as part of the school program or postpones it for a later stage in life.
	To being with, being able to understand the value of money, the way the economic system works and interpret financial news and its implications is a virtue. Without this virtue, an individual, and even a young one, might suffer, to some extent. For  example, a child who doesn’t understand the concept of money might find it more difficult to accept choosing only one present out of many possible ones.
	In addition, many adults are lacking financial analysis capabilities. Quite often, the reason can be a shaky basis or insecurity when it comes to financial terms and concepts. Starting from an early age, building a strong background can very likely prevent such a situation.
	However, financial education necessarily involves quantifying and setting prices and value for services and goods. It can easily turn young people into cynical and cold-hearted human beings. Furthermore, a tendency to self-concentration and egoism might rise when one starts measuring everything from a profit making perspective.
	In conclusion, financial education has both pros and cons. In my opinion, the advantages are stronger than the disadvantages, making financial education an advisable component of the school program. The disadvantages should be thought of as a certain price that young people have to pay due to the characteristics of the world that we live in.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/314-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-88-television-has-had-a-significant-influence-on-the-culture-of-many-societies",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/313-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-87-there-will-be-soon-no-role-for-teachers-in-the-classroom",
Essay 1678:
	There have been immense advances in technology in most aspects of people’s lives, especially in the field of education. Nowadays, an increasing number of students rely on computers for research and to produce a perfect paper for school purposes. Others have decided to leave the original way of learning and to get knowledge through online schools. These changes in the learning process have brought a special concern regarding the possible decrease of importance of teachers in the classroom.
	Some people believe the role of teachers started to fade because computers have been helping some students to progress in their studies quicker than when compared with an original classroom. For example, in the same classroom, students have different intellectual capacities, thus some would be tied to a slow advance in their studies because of others’ incapacity of understanding. In this way, pupils could progress in their acquisition of knowledge at their own pace using computers instead of learning from teachers.
	However, the presence of a teacher is essential for students because the human contact influences them in positive ways. Firstly, students realise that they are not dealing with a machine but with a human being who deserves attention and respect. They also learn the importance of studying in group and respect other students, which helps them to improve their social skills.
	Moreover, teachers are required in the learning process because they acknowledge some student’s deficiencies and help them to solve their problems by repeating the same explanation, giving extra exercises or even suggesting a private tutor. Hence, students can have a bigger chance not to fail in a subject.
	In conclusion, the role of teachers in the learning process is still very important and it will continue to be in the future because no machine can replace the human interaction and its consequences.
Essay 1679:
	It is conspicuous that computer usage is proliferating in every walk of our life. Few people are afraid that they will substitute teachers in the education system. I believe teachers are our guides and nobody can replace them in our schools, colleges or universities.
	Admittedly, the computer is a wonder machine and there is no paucity of information on the web. Every conceivable data is available to satisfy the curiosity of individuals. With its interactive capability, it’s gaining the interests of toddlers and youngsters. There are various intelligent software and simulators which enable people to grasp knowledge faster and in an easier way. Digital books are also available which helps individuals for having more information in no physical space.
	The importance of computers is irrefutable. However, every individual is inimitable and have specific needs in their studies or learning. Teachers are the one who can understand the individuality of a pupil and guide him/her with clear concepts. Computers can ameliorate the access of knowledge but teachers are the one who can polish the student with the right guidance. In this modern era, teachers need to adapt so that they can assist their students with their great experience and the computer aid.
	In the light of aforementioned points, computers are necessary as they are inundated with information to help individuals learn but at the same time teachers with their adapted behaviour can give better guidance. Hence there is no exaggeration to say that teachers were important in past, they hold a valuable place in present and will be our need in future as well; nobody can take their position in the classroom.
Essay 1680:
	Nobody can disagree with this statement that learning from computers and the internet is more amusing and convenient for students and professionals. It makes the relaxed and stress-free situation to students for assignment and project preparation and for professional for making different types of official works. Furthermore, a person can get a lot of valuable and necessary information related to any area of study in short time, which is impossible without computers. In addition advanced level students can approach to online classes, where a teacher delivers a well-prepared lecture to the student. This is a great opportunity that computers provide to professional so that they can attend online classes besides their jobs. the computer has made easy the role of teachers in primary level as well as in advance level because teachers develop their capabilities and skill while reading different materials developed by experts.
	To summarise my opinion, the role of teachers will change but their complete absence would not be possible as pupils cannot learn effectively and in an efficient way without the supervision and guidance of a good teacher. Especially at the elementary level, the role of a teacher is very important, because at this stage students need more guidance from teachers. Guidance and assistant without teachers are not only difficult but also impossible in the education sector.
Essay 1681:
	The 21st century is the century of technology and we cannot imagine it without computers. Technological advancement without computers is unthinkable. In each and every field of life, the computer has the role of backbone. This can also be seen in the field of education where everything from lectures, assignments, projects, research work is being conveyed through computers. However, despite all these revolutionary changes I still feel the role of teachers in the classroom cannot be eliminated. This will be analysed in detail in the following paragraphs.
	The computers are being used as a major medium of communication in educational institutions, especially in the high schools and universities. For instance, online education all across the world is being communicated via computers and the lectures are either given live or recorded and the computer is the only mode of communication for delivering knowledge, not the knowledge itself. Still the fundamental about teaching and lessons remain the same and at the end, the teacher is the one imparting knowledge.
	Further, the computer cannot understand the mental capabilities of the student. It will only deliver what has been programmed into it. It doesn’t have an idea whether the student listening lecture is able to absorb or not? Now look at an example a computer is giving recorded lecture to one hundred students and it even doesn’t know that student is watching or involved in some other activities.
	Lastly, the teacher is one who is emotionally attached to his students and computer doesn’t. A teacher feels proud when his students pass the subject with good grades. Computers do not care about that at all.
	Finally, to summarise, the computer is a necessity for the world’s development. But I don’t think that there will be ever a time that teachers can be replaced with computers no matter how much we advance. The teachers should always think the computers as their support and the bridge for educating students.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/312-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-86-education-should-be-free-to-all-people-and-paid-managed-by-the-government",
Essay 1682:
	Education is an important part of everyone's life and it plays a very important role in the growth of an individual. Making education free for everyone and managing all by the government will be a very big step towards the rapid growth of a society. All parents want to make their children educated by sending them to school, colleges but sometimes due to the lack of resources, they have to deprive their children even from the basic education. By making education free of all will ensure that nobody will miss education just because they can’t afford to pay.
	Education with no fees will identify all those talents which can be at top given education and guidance but get lost because their parents can’t afford to pay for schools. Everyone will stand equal chance to succeed. It will increase the literacy rate of that country and will improve the growth of that country as well. It was seen in the past that countries having higher literacy rates have been more successful. By making education free, a majority of people will be educated, making overall a positive environment in our society. There will be fewer crimes in society. Educating people will be making them more responsible.
	Governments should put more emphasis on education by making it free. Just like food and shelter education should also be a basic right and free for everyone.
Essay 1683:
	The opinion that every citizen should have the right to study at school or university for free is very controversial one. Those, who disagree, refer to enormous expenditures of government in case of establishing such laws. Although, I hold the viewpoint that not charging people for education could become very beneficial for a country and its economy.
	First, young people from poor families could be very smart. Looking back to history and biographies of distinguished people, raised in poverty can illustrate this best. Making schooling available only for fortunate is not fair. Moreover, the state well-being could also be affected, because there would be a lack of talented specialists, whose skills was not discovered and developed by proper training.
	Another advantage of making education free of charge is the happiness of the nation. An individual's inability to collect the amount of money he needs to pay school or university fee cause stress and anxiety in the middle-class society, which can even keep them from having children. Nowadays we can see that the lowest birthrate is in countries where prices of enrollment to highest education institutions are very high. This clearly indicates the fact that citizens of rich countries do not feel able to provide their future offspring proper education.
	Finally, nothing seems to be more beneficial to a country's economy than an educated and intelligent nation. Free courses and study programs can prepare excellent specialists, who would work to bring profit themselves and hence their country. That would surely compensate most expenses of state budget caused by education of no charge.
	To sum up, even though making all schools free can be very expensive for a state's economy, advantages are invaluable. After several years such improvements would bring fruits of happy, intelligent nation confident about its future.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/311-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-85-compare-the-contributions-of-artists-to-society-with-the-contributions-of-scientists-to-society",
Essay 1684:
	Art and science are considered as pillars of our society. Both, an artist and a scientist, play vital roles in the formation of a civilised society. The contributions from these two entities are highly appreciated and welcomed by all in a society. The influences made by their works are commendable. But, concluding on who contributes more would be cumbersome; however, in the present world where invention and innovation are the buzzwords, I think a scientist’s delivery would be valued more.
	An artist is highly capable, said to even portray one’s mind. In the past, an artist was an avid source of inspiration for many. An ideal exemplification would be the reference of king DRaja Ravi Varma in Indian scripts, where he was admired by many ladies for his outstanding paintings. The works of world renowned artists like Da Vinci, Othello etc. will need a special mention in this context. The society is acknowledged of its evil faces by artists through their works - a documentary against child labour, celebrities holding hands together against a social cause like AIDS awareness campaigns would serve a few examples.
	On the other hand, scientists are under constant effort to bring comfort to our life. The scientific revolution is considered an epic that happened in this century. Through new inventions, they aid society in overcoming the obstacles and challenges faced by their counterparts. Through scientist, we are able to achieve longevity, excellent discoveries avail us with new forms of energy, scientists come up with new ideas to improve our quality of life, almost every day. In addition to this, scientists are behind experiments and research to eliminate all possible threats from our society. Meanwhile, almost all huge machines to tiny kitchen equipment that we use in our daily life have a scientist’s effort behind.
	So from the above discussion, my conscientious allows me to favour a scientist than an artist with regards to their contributions to our society. Both these as mentioned earlier are vital for us. An artist acts as a source of inspiration and information, whereas a scientist works as a source of innovations and inventions.
Essay 1685:
	The world needs both the artists and scientists.We equally remember the contribution of Leonardo the Vinci and Albert Einstein. It might seem a controversial question whether the contributions of artists are more or less than the contributions of scientists to the world.But to me , there is no scope for debate, hence I value both equally and my believe both types are valuable, priceless and irreplaceable .The art can never be the competitor or alternative of science and the reverse is true as well.
	The contributions of artists to the society are very essential. Art can form person’s spiritual sense, their views,morality, spirit and personalities. People learn history, the traditions of their country trough the art. We also watch movies that entertain and at the same time extend our range of interests. Another important aspect of this is that art is an ancient means of communication. In old times people depicted the herds of mammoths on the walls of their caves. They performed different rituals around the fireplace asking their gods for health, good harvest and weather. Our language is a result of people's need to communicate.
	On the contrary, the contribution of scientists is could not be exaggerated. All humankind is indebted to the scientists because of their work and achievements. Scientists make our life easier. We have cars and aeroplanes to move fast from one place to another. We have microwaves and a bunch of preprocessed food to make the cooking much easier. We have different devices that simplify all we do. Finally, scientists are making great achievements in medicine that make our life longer and happier. Nowadays people have a great opportunity to do many things faster by use of computers.
	To conclude, I believe that artists nourish our souls when scientists and technology feed our minds. So, we can not eliminate or underestimate one of them.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/310-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-84-it-is-important-to-have-a-single-language-as-an-international-official-language",
Essay 1686:
	With the advent of globalisation, a common language to facilitate trade and communication seems inevitable. Some oppose the development of a single language on the grounds that it may lead to cultural erosion and a loss of local linguistic knowledge. Yet, I am of the opinion that it is possible to use an official international language and still retain one’s own language and culture.
	Firstly, many countries already use an official language or languages. For example, in India, there are two official languages: Hindi and English. In a country such as India where there are innumerable languages spoken, there is a need for official languages to ensure communication between different sections of the population and the different states. In China, where different dialects are spoken, Mandarin, the official language, enables people from different provinces to comprehend each other.
	Secondly, in an age of rampant globalisation, there is no doubt that an international language is inevitable. How is an African businessman going to conduct businesses in China when there are such differences between their languages? In this sense, not only is an international language inevitable, but also a necessity for trade, commerce and economic expansion in the 21st century.
	The critics opposing the adoption of an international official language argue that it would lead to a loss of cultural identity. However, the use of an international official language doesn’t mean that local languages will die out. For example, English already functions as a kind of unofficial international language but this doesn’t mean that people solely converse in English or they neglect their own language. English is used in specific contexts (trade, business, etc) and native languages are used for everyday instruction.
	In brief, as the world becomes smaller the need for an official international language seems unavoidable. English has already assumed this role although its status is unofficial. In my view, the use of either an official or unofficial international language is necessary to facilitate communication in a time of rapid globalisation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/309-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-83-complain-about-a-product-or-poor-service",
Essay 1687:
	It is rather difficult for me to answer the question how I prefer to complain: in writing or in person because sometimes I just do not have a choice. For example, if I order a product using the Internet from another state or even country, I will more likely have no opportunity to speak to a representative of a company in person. So, in some cases I choose to speak in person and in others I prefer to complain in writing. However, I believe that every option has its advantages.
	From the one side, complaining in writing brings many benefits. First of all, one does not have to spend his precious time driving, waiting for his turn and talking with a representative. He can just send mail or e-mail and get all explanation he needs. Second of all, I think it is the best way to avoid an unpleasant conversation. Personally, I do not like to complain about anything especially, in person. Finally, sometimes it is impossible to have a face-to-face conversation because a company which provided a poor product or service is too far away.
	From the other side, complaining in person has some benefits too. First, this type of complaining provides an immediate feedback. So, if I have some complaints about a company's products, I will receive all information and explanation right away. However, sending a company a letter and getting a feedback can take more than a month. Second, face-to-face conversation is often more effective. People talk to each other, see each other facial gestures and body movements, which can tell a lot about a person. In addition to these practical benefits, in case, one can not receive a credible explanation from one representative, he always can require to talk to another person. For instance, my husband recently had some extra withdraws from his account by his bank and he was not aware of it. So, he went to the bank and explained to the bank's representative the situation and they together found the solution and that money was given back to my husband's account. I think, in this case, face-to-face conversation is the best way to complain and get feedback fast.
	In conclusion, I think that if I have to complain about a product or poor service I will do it in person. However, if a face-to-face conversation is impossible, I think I have nothing left but to send a letter or write an e-mail there.
Essay 1688:
	Firstly, putting down your complaints in writing has the advantage of getting to the person intended. That person is usually at the top of the hierarchy. For example, if someone complains to the driver of a bus about over-speeding or reckless driving, the information might not get to the manager of the transport company but may only end up with the driver which might not stop the driver from over speeding in the future and therefore the complaint would not make any impact.
	Secondly, writing to the manager about a poor service gives the manager time to understand and assimilate the gravity of the situation and understand how important it was to you the consumer for you to take your time to write about a certain problem. In addition, if one decides to complain in person, emotions may come into play and may lead to the exchange of words and the desired effect is therefore not achieved.  Written complaints also have the advantage of being referred to in the future.
	In summary, written complaints have the advantage of getting to the individual in charge, being able to be referred to in the future and giving the receiver ample time to understand the situation and to address it appropriately. As a result, I would prefer to forward my complaints in writing.
Essay 1689:
	In day to day life, it is quite common that the daily useful products undergo repair and we are dissatisfied with some services from a provider. To complain about these to the concerned party, some send letters or emails and others complain in person. These two ways differ in resolution time and effectiveness.
	The drafted complaint is a lengthy way because the delivery of complaint through courier or postal service takes time. In addition, if the service provider could not understand our complaint then to and fro communication between two parties take additional time. For example, when my microwave oven was damaged, I sent a written complaint to the service centre and it took 2 days to deliver the letter along with the product. Two days later I got a call from the service centre technician for the complaint clarification as he could not understand it clearly. Finally, I got back my micro woven after 7 days. In contrast face to face complaints takes less time.
	When we give complaints personally, they are quickly resolved and give effective results. For instance, a few days back I bought Rasagulla sweets and I found them spoiled after opening the container. Immediately I went to the supermarket, complained in person and returned the items. Consequently, they informed the manufacturer to collect back all the boxes of Rasagulla sweets which had the same batch number that I complained. As a result, manufacturer and seller reputation was saved and I got my result.
	In short, the above two examples say that an in person complaint is more effective than a pened complaint.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/308-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-82-the-costs-of-medical-health-care-are-increasing-all-the-time",
Essay 1690:
	"Nothing is free in this world", this saying is true when it comes to free medical services. Though some countries provide free medical facilities, they indirectly get that money from civilians via tax. For instance, in Australia the health service is completely free, however, the income tax is as high as 35%. On the other hand, the insurance could be economical. For example, a person is earning a thousand dollars a week can afford 50 dollars for the insurance premium. Moreover, if the income increases, it is not mandatory that the premium would also increase. It is understood that some people might not be able to afford health expenses. However, due to growing competition between insurance companies, many affordable plans are available in the market.
	It could be argued that if an individual has to pay for his health, he can ignore it and that could result in an unhealthy nation in long-run. However, a free service could encourage the unnecessary visits as well. It is certainly an individual's responsibility to take care of his own health. Moreover, if hospitals have only those patients who are unwell then they could provide better service. For example, when a hospital has one hundred patients out of which only thirty patients are sick, hospitals still has to spend a considerable amount of time with other seventy patients. Patients who are actually sick could receive a far better service and attention if the remaining seventy could be eliminated.
Essay 1691:
	The most important reason for encouraging people to take out private health insurance is the cost to the government of health care. Free health cover for people who are able to pay for it is a waste of public money. Of course, people will only pay health insurance premiums if they know that they are getting good value for their money. If they get sick, they should pay very little or nothing at all. In addition, the privately insured are entitled to special benefits such as having the choice of their own doctors and being able to avoid long waiting lists for hospital beds.
	On the other hand, those who really cannot afford to pay private insurance premiums, which are often very high, are still entitled as citizens to the best medical care available – they cannot be expected to pay their own medical bills. However, if they are working, they should still pay a percentage of their wage (say 1 to 2%) as a tax which pays towards the cost of providing "free" medical services.
	In conclusion, most people should privately insure their health, but it is unreasonable to suppose that all citizens can afford it. Therefore, a safety net in the form of a basic free health care system must exist for the very poor and the unemployed.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/307-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-81-which-country-would-you-like-to-visit",
Essay 1692:
	To begin with, it is a fact that China is well known for its civilisation, and there are a lot of historical places that I must visit. Firstly, I would definitely visit the Great Wall of China, which is included in the Seven Wonders of the World. It was the longest wall that was ever made by human being, and it was said that astronauts could see the wall with a naked eye from the shuttle space ship. Secondly, I will visit the Tian An Men Square, which is located in the capital city of China or Beijing. The square is a palace where most of the emperor of China had lived until the communist party took over the country in 1960. These ancient buildings contain a lot of historical values; therefore I must visit these places.
	Besides the historical places, there are other things that visitors could do in China. There are a lot of beautiful landscapes in the country, such as mountains, hills and valleys which are well known for their purity and originality. And then, China is well known for its unique and exotic animal, Panda. Panda is a part of the bear family, but the animal has a unique colour and it can only be found in China. Furthermore, the country is also famous for its culinary. There are various types of food in China, from the spicy ones until the extreme type such cockroaches or spiders. Therefore, there are many activities that tourists can do, while they visit the country.
	In conclusion, if I have the opportunity to visit a new country for fourteen days, I would visit China. There are a lot of things that visitors could do there, from visiting the historical places, seeing the unique animal and enjoying some of the beautiful scenery places.
Essay 1693:
	First of all, I have always dreamed visiting different Egyptian pyramids. My aunt visited Egypt a few years ago. She was very excited after that trip and said that she would return there one more time at any cost. She said that Egypt had impressed her very much with its glorious pyramids and ancient buildings. Second of all, I think that in that country one can touch history, feel the hard breath of workers building a pyramid under the parching sun, and see the chain of camels walking in the desert with the huge trunks full of presents for Cleopatra on their humps. Finally, I want to see a real dessert and ride the camel. All my friends who rode the camel say that it is an unforgettable experience.
	In conclusion, I want to add that after my trip to Egypt I will definitely visit Australia. This country is the second one on my list the most wanted to see.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/306-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-80-children-of-different-levels-of-intelligence-should-be-taught-together",
Essay 1694:
	In the past in many educational institutions children have been taught together based on their age regardless of intellectual ability displayed at schools. Alternatively, a large proportion of the population believes there should be a strong move towards the separation of children of different intellectual capabilities in current educational institutions. From my own educational perspective, I honestly believe that younger students possessing higher intelligence levels than their peers ought to be separated into alternative levels based on their gift, for a number of reasons.
	Admittedly, although young learners have the chance to learn a lot from associating with classmates their own age, it is widely believed that such a process isn’t considered to be vital for a healthy educational upbringing. The argument for intellectual separation holds some strong advantages. Firstly, by allocating students to classes based on levels of intelligence, high achievers have the opportunity to excel in a way that they couldn’t in a normal class. Owing to the fact that they can be placed into an unrestricted educational environment, students can excel with intellectual freedom.
	Secondly, there is a strong argument in regards to inhibiting a child’s intellectual growth by restricting them from moving above their peers if their mental capability permits. Why should we limit the intelligence of our future generation? For instance, many of today’s highly successful artists and entrepreneurs in the world have come from an unrestricted educational background and have been allowed to explore their mind and careers to the fullest extent.
	In conclusion, although I believe an educational environment for young learners should promote equal opportunity, I honestly think that creating a more liberal environment which enhances the learning capabilities of intellectually-gifted children will not only benefit individual’s careers but future society as a whole.
Essay 1695:
	Separating students by their level of intelligent is suggested by some experts. Yet, taking this idea into practice is still a controversial issue. Some people claim that it is much more justified for genius pupils, whilst other perspective rejects this suggestion and persists on the idea of unseparated schools. Personally, I do believe that all pupils should be taught in the same group.
	It is thought that separating children by the factor of intelligence could have better consequences. If the students being segregated, teachers have more capability to teach subjects in higher levels and this wouldn`t make classes monotonous for good students. In particular, mathematic classes could be an interesting class which is broadening the horizons of intelligent pupils in the case of separation.
	Although in one view separating student is an advisable project, others, on the hand, believe that not only is this idea broadcasting the hopeless among regular students, but also it refers the share of nurture in education. What makes a pupil a prosperous student is a stimulating environment in school and it is possible by some education of both genius and ordinary children. In the other words, if the students do not being separated, the feel of competitiveness will definitely help their promotion.
	To conclude, all the above-mentioned points are in my own perspective rarely do segregation of children influence on positive ways if the whole students are taken into account.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/305-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-79-some-people-prefer-to-work-for-a-large-company",
Essay 1696:
	The issue whether working for a large company is better than working for a small company is a controversial one. From my everyday experience and observation, I think that every option has its advantages and disadvantages. I base my opinion on the following points.
	From the one side working for a large company brings many benefits. First of all, one has better medical insurance, higher salary. Often employees of a large company have less responsibility. Moreover, they feel more secure because their company has more clients and this means better chance to survive on the modern market. However, one working for a large company has less chance to be promoted because one's manager does not want to lose his or her job unless she or he is promoted too. Also, from my observation, managers of a large company do not pay much attention to one's solutions and suggestions.
	From the other side working for a small company has many advantages too. Firstly, one has better chance to be promoted. Secondly, one can talk to the owner of the company about any improvements that can be done in order to get more profit. Another important aspect of working for a small company is the opportunities to find out more about how a company works. As a result of this one can gain more experience and get better recommendations. However, this also has some disadvantages. For instance, one can get less salary, worse medical benefits, etc.
	To sum up, I think that every person chooses for himself what he or she wants. If one wants a better career and more responsibilities then a small company is a better choice. Otherwise, working for a large company may be a good option too.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/304-universities-should-not-provide-so-much-theoretical-knowledge",
Essay 1697:
	In the past, a majority of academics have held the opinion that universities should only offer a theoretically-based approach to teaching throughout their courses, as opposed to the relatively recent trend towards the empirical acquisition of knowledge involving more “hands on” experience. Is this the most effective way for students to learn vital academic information while undertaking their degrees? Undoubtedly, advantages and disadvantages of both academic learning styles have to be evaluated.
	Firstly, on the one hand, despite being the more traditional educational approach, learning from theory in relevant academic discourses to identify established knowledge allows us to gain a professional insight. For example, students can easily identify facts and opinions from past discourses. In addition, students acquire knowledge more easily when given relative theoretical examples to build upon. For instance, in subjects such as history or sociology, studying textbook examples allows students to unravel complex academic theories which they could expand on. Alternatively, there are some disadvantages for students.
	On the other hand, there is no doubt that students could find themselves reading tedious and monotonous academic papers. For instance, university degrees involving the evaluation of numerous ‘long-winded’ academic discourses provide a little inspiration for students, discouraging enthusiasm. Obviously, interest can be stimulated through empirical research in class. By this, I mean that ‘the human brain learns best by doing’. Although time-consuming, there is no substitute for learning from making mistakes.
	In conclusion, while both approaches have benefits and drawbacks in our ever-changing academic world, I honestly believe that a more practical approach promotes a stronger acquisition of academic knowledge. In spite of the comprehensive nature which theoretical teaching can possibly provide, practical learning equals more positive learning for future generations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/303-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-77-a-foreign-visitor-has-only-one-day-to-spend-in-your-country",
Essay 1698:
	Travelling is a good way to find out more about different countries with different traditions and customs. Some travellers prefer to spend in one country just a few days or one day and then leave for another country. This way of travelling allows people to visit more countries in fewer days. Unfortunately, in this case, such travellers have to hurry in order to visit more places.
	Some people say that it is impossible to feel deeply and see all these amazing historical values for one visit. I have to completely agree with this statement. When I first visited the "Hermitage" I was 14 years old. It impressed me so much that I was back next day to see what I had not been able to see the day before.
	The "Hermitage" is an impressive and beautiful museum. I think it is worth to spend there a whole day and I believe that after that a foreign visitor can claim with a proud that he or she saw Russia.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/302-education-overseas-has-become-more-accessible",
Essay 1699:
	One of the greatest advantages of studying in a foreign country, especially, in a developed one, is that the children learn to be independent. Having to cook, clean, and pay bills instil this quality in them. Often they have to work part-time to make ends meet, and this impresses upon them the importance of work and money management. I believe that overseas education gives students many excellent opportunities including better education, better environment, becoming self-reliant and so on despite some of the negative aspects that are not tough to control. 
	Apart from being self-dependant, another important factor of pursuing the education in a foreign country is that those children will be exposed to different cultures and ways of thinking. They will become more open-minded and tolerant and are likely to become more adaptable individuals.
	One of the main motives for sending young people abroad to study is that it enhances their employment prospects. In my experience of living in foreign countries and speaking to various youths, it seems that a foreign education is regarded as something desirable and helpful in getting a decent job. A degree from Britain, for example, is seen as being of a higher standard than one from a developing country. Furthermore, living in a foreign country may lead to fluency in a second language, which is another selling point for prospective employers. In addition, many companies are keen to recruit people with a global outlook.
	There are a few drawbacks of this trend that cannot be avoided. For instance, without parental supervision, the new found freedom children experience may lead to harmful practices such as drug-taking and drinking. Reluctance or inability to reintegrate into their mother country is another. To sum up, it can be seen that the advantages of studying abroad for children are more numerous than the disadvantages. Of course, a lot depends on the age of the child, but I believe that for most teenagers it would be a positive experience.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/301-what-are-some-important-characteristics-of-a-co-worker",
Essay 1700:
	Having good co-workers makes our professional life meaningful while bad colleagues can make our life miserable. Since people spend a considerable amount of their time in their workplaces, characteristics of their co-workers greatly affect the level of job satisfaction. Friendly behaviour, team spirit, helpfulness and professionalism are some important qualities that make someone a great colleague.
	To begin with, friendly behaviours of an employee would make things easier for other workers. When someone joins a company, the first thing he looks for among his colleagues is the friendly behaviours. Second, team spirit is another important aspect the make worker's life easier in a company. Without it, some employees would suffer greatly to produce the expected output. This is why companies these days look for this trait among the employees. Third, helpfulness of an employee makes the life of other employees lot easier. A helpful colleague would share his knowledge, help finish a project and amiable to others. For instance, during my three years professional life, I have always liked the people who have raised their helping hands whenever needed. My experience taught me that those are good people to rely on.
	Finally, the professionalism is a quality that drives people to work closely to attain a common goal. Thus those sorts of people would value others opinion, criticism and feedback. They would also advise junior employees and would guide them in difficult times. Alfred Stuart, a former colleague of mine, had a great professionalism and that is why he was reliable, a great team lead and a person to seek advice.
	All things considered, good qualities like friendliness, helpful mentality, professional attitude and team spirit among co-workers make our working environment healthy and enhances our job satisfaction.
Essay 1701:
	First of all, a person who works closely with me must like his job. I think it is very important for a person to feel satisfaction with his job. My husband is a software developer. He is fond of his job and people enjoy working with him because they see how many energy he puts into his job. Secondly, my co-worker must be persistent and never give up. I like when people who came across a problem try to solve it, find a good decision instead of looking for another person to hand it over. Another important aspect of this is that a good worker should always ask himself "What can be improved?" and suggests new solutions.
	In addition, he must be a good team player. In the modern world, good communication skills and the ability to work in a team are among the common position requirements. Personally, I think it is great to help each other, share new ideas, develop new solutions, etc. It helps to create a team spirit and improve labour productivity. Finally, my co-worker must be punctual. He or she should finish the job on time I think that It is unacceptable to make the rest of a team wait while a person finishes his or her job. Also, my "ideal co-worker" should always be ready to offer his or her help and be supportive.
	To summarise, I think if a co-worker possesses all of these qualities mentioned above he can make work with him really enjoyable and productive.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/300-classmates-are-a-more-important-influence-than-parents",
Essay 1702:
	Some people think that school friends give more influence to a child’s success than parents. Although the existence of friends has some positive effect, I personally believe that parents give more significant effect to the child’s success.
	It is undeniable that classmates play a significant role in a child success, as friends could help each other. One of the examples is when a child does not understand a lesson, he could ask a help from his friends. And then, when a child joins a sports competition, his friends might support him and give him encouragement. Despite all the positive sides, they could also bring negatives things as well. For instance, one of the classmates might be addicted to drugs, and he could influence the others to use it.
	Many people believe that parents have more significant contributions to a child’s academic study than classmates. Even though they might not be giving technical advice to the child, but they give moral support. For example, a child might have some difficulties with his exam and has to study until late at night, his parents might give some motivational words that inspire him, and also stay awake to accompany the child. And then, parents will also provide all funds needed for the improvement of the child’s academic study. For instance, a child might have some problems with mathematics, and the parents might hire a private tutor for their child.
	In conclusion, I do agree that school friends have some positive effect on a child’s academic performance, but I do not agree if people think that classmates give more important influence than parents. I believe that parents play more vital roles in a child’s success, as they give moral and financial support.
Essay 1703:
	From the one side, classmates have a significant influence on child's behaviour and his or her success in school. First of all, children spend much time at school. Classmates have many things in common such as age, interests, homework and classes after all. So, they discuss their impressions about a new teacher, solve problems together, learn their homework, gain new knowledge and experience and even make their own discoveries. Sharing all these makes them closer. Some of them become friends and they spend after-school time together. In addition, friends tend to copy each other's habits and manners. For instance, my little sister became friends with the girl who did not have good grades at school at that time. It does not mean she could not have better grades; she just had many friends who did not care about their grades. So, when they started to spend their time together and share their interests, girl's grades improved. They did their homework together, shared their dreams and exciting moments. From this point, I must agree that classmates can change child’s attitude towards school.
	From the other side, parents have a great influence on children' success in school too. For example, if parents show an interest in their child's progress and talk to him or her about the importance of learning I think their child will listen to them and do his or her best.
	Personally, I believe that relationships between parents and a child play an essential role in child's success in school. If these relationships are close and wholehearted I am sure that parents should not be afraid of bad influence from the outside.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/299-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-73-government-should-not-put-money-into-building-theaters-and-sports-stadiums",
Essay 1704:
	What would the world be like without Shakespeare or the Olympics? While medical care and education are perhaps the highest causes to which money can be contributed, the arts and athletics are in some ways just as valuable. So, to ask the government to not extend support to these two areas could be just as detrimental to the welfare of society as the lack of sufficient health care and education.
	The Romans believed in “Mens sana in corpore sano”, usually translated as "a sound mind in a sound body". In short, that there is indeed a correlation between a healthy body and healthy mind. When we are healthy, we feel better and so are more likely to be productive academically. Plus, the practice of sports can also teach us the very same discipline we need for our studies. Why even a brisk walk or watching an exciting athletic match can refresh the mind for greater work. Moreover, sports can serve to create healthier bodies, which in turn would serve as a form of “preventive medicine” thereby cutting down on medical costs. In the same vein, the arts are known to induce a sense of well-being in performers and audience alike, reducing mental problems and their associated physical manifestations and again, medical costs. As such, building theatres and stadiums, which spur interest in the arts and sports respectively, actually would be practically identical to spending money on medical care and education!
	Now I realise the question specifically addresses the building of theatres and sports stadiums by the government. Some people would contend athletics and the arts can still be enjoyed and practised without such constructions. I would assert that these buildings stand as the altars to the sports and art worlds, inspiring would-be athletes and performers. Without such venues where would sports spectators and music aficionados be able to enjoy these events? Now some other people would also say business could support their construction, but we know the avarice of business could very likely jeopardise the lofty spirit of athletics and the arts just as well. Therefore, allowing the government to retain some say in the matter on behalf of the people would, I believe, be in the best interest of the people.
	In short, as long as the government does no go overboard in its expenditures for these buildings and uses such venues for the benefit of all, then, as mentioned above, people will benefit in terms of both medical care and education as well. This is not to say the government should neglect medical care and education, but rather to think of this not as an either-or choice but as a win-win situation for all.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/298-computers-are-replacing-more-and-more-jobs",
Essay 1705:
	When computers first made their way into the business sector, everyone believed that they would make people's jobs easier. What was not expected was that computers would eliminate jobs. Besides contributing to unemployment, these automated workers often exhibit inadequate job performance.
	While a computer may easily achieve the main tasks of these jobs, most computers fall short when customers have a unique request or problem. A pre-paid ticket booth does not have insight into the entertainment district and cannot offer friendly directions to a tourist. Similarly, an automated bank machine cannot provide assistance and reassurance to a customer who has just had his credit card stolen. And, more often than not, automated telephone operators cannot answer the one question that we have, and we end up waiting on the line to speak with someone anyway. Every time I go into the library where I worked I notice elderly people who don't know how to use computers and can't find anyone to help.
	In the future, I believe a new business trend will evolve. As computers eliminate jobs, new positions will have to be invented. More and more people will go into business and hopefully put the personal touch back into the business. I believe that the human workforce will demonstrate that it is more valuable than computers. 
Essay 1706:
	From the last century, technology has been advanced more and more. Because of technology, they are flying from one country to another country in an hour; they are saving money and time by using internet services. With the help of this advanced technology, humans are getting huge benefits. Along with the advantages of technology, there are disadvantages also.
	Postman, who delivers letters, money, and other things, is nowhere to find in this modern world because of the electronic mails services and ATM machines. In very rare cases, he appears at our doors. As the world has been advancing in technology more, people get rid of postmen. For example, before the ATM machines evolved, everyone had to use the services of a postman to send or get money from their allegiances, acquaintances, relatives, etc, In order to send letters or messages to their, people, beloved one. But, the electronic mail system has made the postman in our streets disappeared.
	Today, in banks, we see more computers than employees. Before computers, the accountants used pen and papers for records. As the computer was introduced to the world, the only few employees have been needed to operate computers to save the log.
	In this way, as technology has been playing a higher role than most of the job positions. However, research opportunities regarding the technology have been increasing as the demand for technology has been growing day by day. In overall, the losing job positions is not a good sign for the employment of a country, as some job positions require little education beyond the job positions of technology.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/297-characteristics-we-are-born-with-have-much-more-influence-on-our-personality",
Essay 1707:
	In today's modern world, numerous researches have been conducted around the globe in order to improve the personality and the development of an individual. There is one recent research which has clearly shown that the personality and development of a person are highly likely to depend on the characteristics that they are born with as compared to other experiences in their life. However, I believe experiences of a person will have a greater impact on one's personality and development.
	Undoubtedly, if we could utilise the experience we gain from working or travelling abroad, we would be more mature and more open-minded. Whenever we arrive in a new place, we can learn the cultures and traditions from the locals in order to acquire more information about the lifestyles of others and eventually become more knowledgeable. Besides, we may learn how to respect and not to criticise the customs of other races which may be slightly or totally different from ours. By doing so, we can actually get benefited by being able to look at the problems from a various perspective.
	We may also become more self-independent than others if we live in a harsh environment when we were young. To illustrate, in China, many children have to sacrifice their studies and come out to work since they were small. They are proved to have the ability to make more mature decisions on their own in a research conducted in China between those who are affluent and those who live in poverty. Moreover, people who face a lot of hardships in their lives will have a detailed plan of what to do next. For instance, they will organise their expenditure well, which in other words, they will not spend money on unnecessary things, especially those luxurious items. Therefore, it is apparent that experiences gained from a various field in their lives have a huge influence on one's personality and development.
	In conclusion, I am of the opinion that life experience has major consequences on our personalities and developments than the characteristics that we are born with. We will be able to think from different perspectives and make wise decisions if we use the experiences that we gained in our daily live.
Essay 1708:
	Many scientists believe that genetic characteristics have more influence on the human’s personality than some experiences in life. Although genetics has some effect on our characters, I believe that the influence of life experience is more significant, and the following essay will discuss this in details.
	On the one hand, it is true that everyone is unique, as they are born with different characteristics. While some people are born with an easy going character, others might be born with a melancholic one. People could not choose their genetic characters, and these characters will develop more as they get adults. Therefore many experts believe that genetic characters have a significant effect on a person’s identity.
	On the other hand, other people believe that experiences in life have more influence in our life than genetic characters. Communities, family condition, education and work experiences have a deeper effect on a person’s character. For example, a person might be born as a sanguine person, but raise in a broken home family. As a consequence, he could become a pessimistic person when he grew up. Another example is that a man might be a positive person, but as he spent so much time with negative friends, he could become as just one them.
	In conclusion, I agree that genetic characters have some influence on a person’s personality, but I think that life experiences are giving more significant influence to our personality. Therefore it is important for us to be selective in choosing the place to live, workplace and friends.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/296-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-70-scientists-and-the-news-media-are-presenting-ever-more-evidence-of-climate-change",
Essay 1709:
	Nowadays, climate change and global warming issues have become very popular and widely discussed issues. Many people discuss the evidence of climate change and propose solutions on how to solve a lot of problems from the climate change effect. Some people argue that government cannot be expected to tackle the problem because the cause of the problem is human mistakes. I agree with that, however, I believe that both government and individuals should take roles and solve the problem together.
	 The roles of government are needed to solve the problem since they have the power to control societies. Firstly, the government should make and enforce regulations about vehicle use strictly. They have to reduce private motor vehicles by increasing the number of public transportation. Secondly, the rapid growth of forest destruction must be concerned by the government. They have to give severe punishment for illegal logging perpetrators to prevent further damage to the environment. Because of human activities as the primary cause of the climate change, people have to be responsible by taking positive actions. They should change their lifestyle and behaviour to reduce the impact of the problem. Doing simple things like throwing rubbish in the recycle bin, using electricity wisely, buying environment-friendly products, or planting trees will be really helpful.  
	In conclusion, I believe that the climate change is the problem for all of people in this world – with no exception. The government and individuals should take roles and solve the problem together to minimize the impact of climate change. 
Essay 1710:
	Recently scientists worried about climate change have urged governments to introduce measures to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that are seen as its main cause. Simultaneously, politicians and environmentalists have urged individuals to make changes to their lifestyle. I shall argue that governments and individuals should take join responsibility for this problem.
	Firstly, industry accounts for a large proportion of the greenhouse gas emissions, and this can only be controlled by government action. Measures could be taken to discourage pollution, such as limiting or taxing the use of fossil fuels. Alternatively, subsidies could be offered to industries to clean up their production processes. If these ideas were adopted, I believe that businesses would regard pollution as a financial issue. Secondly, discussions among governments can ensure that solutions are successful. The Kyoto agreement, for example, tried to reach a global agreement on how to address the problem. Without such co-operating, it seems to me that efforts to reduce fuel consumption are unlikely to be effective.
	However, national and international policies will only succeed if individuals also change their lifestyle. For example, people could think more carefully about how they use energy in their homes. By using less electricity, installing energy-efficient light bulbs and electrical appliances, or investing in solar panels, individuals can make a real difference. In addition, I think individual attitudes to transport need to change. Instead of making short trips by car, people could choose to walk, cycle, or take a bus. Since cars are a major source of the problem, changing our behaviour in this area would have a major impact.
	In conclusion, I would maintain that only a combination of the international agreement, national policies, and changes in individual behaviour will succeed in preventing further damage to the environment.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/295-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-69-person-would-like-and-dislike-about-living-in-your-town-or-city",
Essay 1711:
	First of all, I believe she will like a huge amount of museums, theatres, movie theatres, etc. My friend is from a small town, so, she can not enjoy all these benefits at her native town. Secondly, it seems to me that she will like the way people live here. The pace of life is much faster here than in a small town. People are always in a hurry, they try to catch a bus, and then they run to the nearest subway station, go to an office, meet new people, etc. Also, I think my friend will like people here. They are very friendly and ready to offer a help to those in need. She will also like the huge garden in front of the parliament house and the people who come to visit there. We have some attractive rivers here and I’m sure she will enjoy the calm environment and sweet breeze of these rivers. Finally, I’m planning to take her to a nearby restaurant that serves  lots of uncommon and delicious foods.
	Unfortunately, my friend will not surely like some things. As a result of a huge amount of cars and factories,  the air is polluted here. One more thing she will definitely not like is the weather. It is quite humid here. However, I think she will also like the public transport here. The bus services are run by the Government and it is quite regular. If one in a hurry he can take a taxi, which also is quite cheap and provide a good transport.
	In conclusion, I believe that in spite of all mentioned above disadvantages she will like this city.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/294-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-68-traffic-and-housing-problems-in-major-cities-could-be-solved-by-moving-large-companies",
Essay 1712:
	These days with increasing urban populations, there are major problems with congestion and not only the price but also availability of accommodation in large cities of the world. It seems that one possible solution could be to relocate large companies and factories as well as their respective employees out of these urban areas and into more rural ones. I strongly agree that this would have a positive effect in making cities more livable.
	To begin with, the traffic problem in cities doesn’t only exist from commuting employees, but also the general public travelling around the city. While this may be a fact, if the number of worker’s vehicles is reduced on city streets, a large percentage of traffic will obviously decline in rush hours. For example, peak hour traffic is undoubtedly made up largely of staff from companies going to and from home.
	Secondly, in regards to housing problems, populations will always continue to grow in cities and therefore inadvertently decrease the number of cheap and available apartments. This is certainly obvious, however, a large proportion of these apartments are occupied by employees from large firms and their families. If this workforce is relocated to housing estates in the country, city apartment blocks will fall in price and certainly increase in availability.
	In conclusion, by relocating workers to rural areas to work and reside, heavy traffic conditions and lack of adequate accommodation in city centres will obviously change for the better. As far as I’m concerned, I agree that the government should enforce such a law in order to increase our standard of living in our hectic city life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/293-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-67-what-discovery-in-the-last-100-years-has-been-most-beneficial-for-people",
Essay 1713:
	There have been various discoveries in last century that have helped my country to improve the people's standard of living and have made their life easier. Discoveries such as telephones, internet and advancement in medicine field have been proven to be very important for changing and shaping people’s lives. But the discovery that has proved to be most beneficial is the advancements in agriculture field such as improved irrigational facilities and improved fertilisers.
	India is primarily an agricultural nation, where still 60% of the population lives in villages. People mostly depend on agriculture and related activities for their livelihood. In earlier days, people were mainly dependent on monsoon and did not have an alternative method of irrigation. If monsoon failed, it would result in drought and hundreds of people would either die or become bankrupt. Also, with the poor quality of seed and bad farming practices, the output generally remained low and the majority of the crops were destroyed by rodents and worms/insects. We were not self-sufficient in producing food grains and hence had to import it from other countries.
	But with the advent of technologies and new improved farming practices, India's agricultural production has surged. We are no longer only dependent on monsoon. Although monsoon still remains as a major source of irrigation, but now we have dams and irrigational channels that provide water for cultivation throughout the year. The government has also focused on providing education on new and improved seeds, fertilisers and new farming techniques such as crop rotation. With the use of these new techniques, we have not only become self-sufficient in the production of our food grain but have a surplus amount for several years. India has also become an exporter of many food grains such as rice, wheat, sugar etc. This has not only helped our economy to grow but also made life easier for all Indians.
	In a nutshell, the discoveries made in the field of agricultural have proved to be a boon for us. We are now able to feed 1.2billion people on our own and yet have a surplus amount. This has also improved the plight of farmers and has relieved huge pressure from our economy by becoming an exporter of food grain rather than an importer.
Essay 1714:
	First of all, all humankind made a huge step towards the mystery of our creation. Scientists had the opportunity to do the new research and experiments. Many new discoveries were made on the boards of the spacecraft in the outer space. People from all over the world watched these events. Many books with real colourful photos were written about the beginning of the space exploration. Nowadays we have a big station called "Mir" in the outer space created on the base of collaboration USA and Russia. Many people work there doing amazing experiments. From the beginning of the mankind till now people are searching some unanswered question and I believe those answers are hidden between the outer space and the journey to the outer space has opened the door of possibility to find those answers. Though it’s still the part of a science fiction that human will live outside the world someday but I believe that it’s the ultimate fact for us.
	Secondly, the world became "smaller". People learnt how to exchange information very quickly by use of satellites. Television is broadcasted all over the world by use of satellites. Here in Houston, I can watch Russian programs. People got the opportunity to exchange news very quickly. The latest telecommunication systems have made the world even smaller. It takes only a few seconds to know the news around the whole world through satellite TV channels. The defence department uses these satellite technologies to get updated data about crime and criminal.  
	To sum up, I believe that space exploration will bring much more benefits in the future and someday we will learn what is beyond our current galaxy.
Essay 1715:
	There have been many inventions in the past one century that has improved the people's life in my country. Here, I would like to talk about the advancement of the agriculture industry that has transformed irrigation and farming process more effectively with less wastage, reduced time and human effort.
	Firstly, traditionally the irrigation was a human intense work and time-consuming process, like digging the wells, fetching the water from wells and building the passages to the field. In addition, people also depend on rain for natural irrigation, which has an adverse effect of spoiling the crops in case of excess rains. The modern inventions have facilitated the farmers to bore the wells, pump the water and sprinkle the water on the fields quickly. These inventions reduce time and effort spent on boring wells and pulling the water and wastage of water passing over the ground from one end to another end of the field.
	Secondly, in olden days planting the crops or seeds were a labour- intensive process and consumes more time, the farmers used the drag or harrow to incorporate the seed into the soil. The modern technology used the machines and equipment to sow or plant the seeds evenly at a desired rate that reduces the seed wastages and time to plant the seeds into the soil. It also enables to utilise the land evenly and produce more yield on a given area.
	Thus, latest innovations accelerated the farmers to produce more in a shorter span of time with reasonable costs, effort and fewer wastages compared to traditional methods.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/292-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-66-watching-television-is-bad-for-children",
Essay 1716:
	Television is ubiquitous these days; I have not come across single household where there is no TV. But is watching TV good for children? Well, I am a strong believer that anything done in moderation is good and same goes with children watching TV.
	Firstly, with the omnipresence of TV, it is impossible to keep children away from it. Moreover, TV provides an efficient source of learning for children if right channels are watched. We generally are able to grasp and remember more things when we see and hear rather than read it and here is where TV is really useful. These days we have different channels focusing only on children like cartoons or more educational channels like animal planet, discovery channel etc. All these channels help in educating children in an effective manner. It is often seen when the children are really young around 1-2 years, they react to TV; whenever a song is being played, they start dancing, and they often listen to songs and starts singing. This definitely suggests that TV helps children in their development and make them active.
	Admittedly, TV also has some negative impacts on children. Sometimes, they squander too much time in watching TV and watching wrong channels can also have a negative influence on them. Therefore it is of utmost importance that parents keep a close eye on their children. With the advent of technology, we now have televisions with child lock system in place, which could prevent children from watching irrelevant and adult channels. Parents should extol the importance of watching news channels to develop overall general knowledge of children. When I was growing up, my parents made sure that I watch the news for at least half an hour in a day. This really helped me in improving my General Knowledge and I gradually developed the interest in politics and also watching different debates and group discussions helped me improving my speaking skill and as a result, I won several prizes in debates and quizzes at school and college level.
	In a nutshell, I think as every coin as two sides, so does television. Watching TV in moderation and under parents’ guidance is good for children entertainment and learning but it is important that parents keep a check on the channels that their children watch and the amount of time being spent on watching TV.
Essay 1717:
	Some parents believe that watching television is bad for their children. So, they try to restrict their children from watching TV. However, other parents think that there is nothing bad in watching TV programmes. Personally, I think that watching TV brings tremendous benefits to the children unless they spend a lot of their valuable time in front of a TV set daily. It is recommended that children should spend less than a couple of hours daily for watching TV programmes and those programmes should be suitable for them. For the following reasons, which I will mention bellow, I believe that television plays an essential role in a child's development.
	First of all, television helps a child to extend his or her range of interests. Children can find out many new things and make many exciting discoveries for themselves. In addition to this practical benefit, television improves children's vocabulary, their memory and gives them the opportunity to gain more knowledge. I think it is essential for a child's growth. Of cause, someone can say that there are plenty of different resources of information such as books and teachers. But, I think, in our modern world children must learn faster and use all contemporary technology in order to succeed. Secondly, watching cognitive programs helps children to learn more about wildlife, our environment and about the importance of preserving our forest and wild animals that live there.
	Scientists say that a child should not watch TV more than 40 minutes successively and not more than 2-3 hours per day. For example, my mother always made us have a break after watching TV more than half an hour and let our eyes rest for several minutes before turning on the TV again. She did not let us watch the TV all day long as well. I think it is the best solution.
	To sum up, I believe that television gives children and all people the opportunity to learn what can not be learnt from books. Television and movies, in particular, allow people to feel the reality and see what they will most likely not be able to see in their lives. Personally, when I was a child I liked to watch cognitive programs about wild animals. Unfortunately, my family had only one TV, but these programs were the only ones we all wanted to watch. So, we gathered in our living room and watched them in complete silence and I always remember those moments with a smile on my face.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/291-people-who-have-original-ideas-are-of-much-greater-value-to-society",
Essay 1718:
	People are born with different abilities and talents. Some being unique and some are common to all. Sometimes those with unique talents come up with ideas that are completely new, creative and astonishing. However, there lingers this question “Are they greater than us? “.
	In my honest opinion, every single human being should be treated and valued the same. No single person is greater than another. From the start of the human race to the present, no society was made by one man. It has always being a combined and a collective effort of everyone.
	Sir Isaac Newton, the great physicist was someone who revolutionised the field of physics. Every single individual respects and acknowledges him for his achievements and contribution to the human race. But does that mean only people of his stature are needed in the society? I say NO. Ideas of Newton have been taken by other individuals to come up with wonders that even Newton could not have imagined of. The Space Shuttles, Aircraft, Architectures, Construction, Sports are all based on ideas of another person. The computer was a machine that was created by an individual. However, this idea was copied by others to build things which are even greater. From simple electronics like calculators to marvels such as supercomputers, Artificial Intelligence, Robots.  
	As a conclusion, like Ying and Yang, a society co-exists with the talents and ideas of all people combined.No individual is of much greater value than another. The day society starts considering that people with original ideas are of much greater value, will be the downfall of that society.
Essay 1719:
	No one would deny that key individuals must be thanked for providing us with certain facilities that we use every day. Where, would we be, for example, without basic items such as the washing machine, the television and, more recently, the computer? These items are now used so regularly that we tend to take them for granted. Throughout the history, the inventors and scientist have invented things those have become out part of life and those inventions have up surged the human civilisation. There are many heavenly scientists whose single theory has changed the whole world. Those inventors are the leader of the whole mankind.
	In fact, the society we live in today has become increasingly consumer-oriented, and while it may be possible to constantly update and improve consumer goods, not everyone where I live can afford the prices of these innovations. Furthermore, not everyone lives in an area that has accessibility to the latest models on the market. For this reason, there is a value to be placed on being able to provide good copies of expensive items. Again many scientists have given many theory and others have implemented it. So this implementation has a great value too. There are lots of evidence that the main invention was very little useful while the developer later made it possible to alter the main device for a better use. So we should not and can’t deny the hard work done by those who copy the idea and develop it for better output.  
	Having said that, certain innovations have a more serious impact on our lives than consumer goods and cannot easily be replicated. Vital medicines like penicillin and vaccines against dangerous diseases also exist because people made continual efforts to develop them. Scientific ideas such as these enable us to live longer and escape illness.
Essay 1720:
	It is believed that people who have genuine ideas bring more benefits to the communities rather than those who duplicate the thought of other people. To a certain extent, I would agree that having pure and original ideas have a higher value than to copy the works of other people. But from the copying activities, other people have developed the work to become more effective and useful.
	On the one hand, it is true that the public should respect those who have genuine and original ideas. These people have sacrificed and spent a lot of their time for thinking, studying and doing some research, in order to get new ideas or inventions. And many of the results bring a lot of benefits for the human kind. One of the examples would be Thomas Alva Edison, who had spent most of his time in experimenting so many things. He had tried for almost 1000 times before he invented the bulb light. Therefore, it is believed that people should appreciate their hard work, the eagerness and the sacrifice these people had been through, in order to get the innovative ideas.
	On the other hand, there are groups of people who copy ideas from other people. Although some people might disrespect this kind of act, but certain people have developed the ideas into something greater than the original ones. For example, it is undeniable that during the 1950's, Japanese car producers were copying the designs of the American and Europeans car manufacturers. But instead of copying the ideas, the Japanese conducted some extensive development programs. As a result, the Japanese could make a more efficient car than the European and American, such as the Toyota Prius which used the hybrid technology.
	In conclusion, I would agree that some innovative and creative thinkers and inverters should be fully appreciated for their original concepts, as they bring so many positive aspects to the society. But, sometimes the copying activities could not be judged as a negative thing since there are other people who could copy the ideas and then developed it well.
Essay 1721:
	People who have original ideas are of much greater value to society than those who are simply able to copy the idea of others well. Agree or disagree?
	In the history of humankind, people have been attempting to facilitate numerous leaps and bounds in their life by sharing their idea to each other. In this regard, societies highly appreciate those who provide their original opinions while those who emulate others idea considered less valuable. From my point of view, this is open to debate.
	The first justification that supports those copying others instructions is that they realised any pros and cons of the dilemma that might occur and the outcome is almost obvious for all. In addition, it is noteworthy that people prefer to put forward those opinions which have tested several times. Taking teachers as an example, they have an inclination to mimic the skills that precedence ones applied in the educational system to transfer knowledge to students, so it is unfair if we underestimate their efforts.
	Despite those points mentioned above in favour of emulators, an overt advantage of having creative people in a society is novel solutions for some problems which will appear. An innovative person is admirable in each country due to the fact that he/she has a power of thinking quickly and making an appropriate decision. Furthermore, these people are considered as intelligent and bear dynamism either in the work ambience and their family. Therefore, on the ground of these positive elements, they are much more admirable.
	To summarise, although emulating others idea is considered boring and under value, we should not overlook the side of the fact that it has several valuable experiences behind itself. However, I believe that innovative people are much more worthwhile.
Essay 1722:
	Society respects both types of people because inventing itself does not add value to the mankind but implementing and improvising on original ideas are equally important. At the same time, innovators should be credited as they are the ones that triggered minds of others.
	It is good to copy ideas of others if someone adding value to original thought. For example, Right brothers invented flying machines couple of generations ago. Several engineers, scientists and researchers improved this idea and made flying safer and accessible to wide range of people. Had this not happened, today we had to travel for months to reach from one corner of the globe to other. If we consider examples of healthcare, lots of improvements have been done over the past ages to original ideas to save lives of people effectively and efficiently. We can find this pattern not only in these industries but in almost all luxuries and comforts we have today. Original ideas laid the foundation for modern innovations of today. So, society respects both categories of people.
	On the contrary, original ideas should be credited because without their ideas things would not have been how they are today. For instance, telecommunications industry developed rapidly in last decade. Without the invention of smartphones today, communications would have been dull and difficult. In this ever improving world, new ideas will be developed by organisations and individuals and well recognised by the society. There have been awards and prizes like Nobel Prize that are globally recognised and helped to reach ideas masses and impact day-to-day lives of people throughout our world.
	To summarise, societies have been recognising both original innovators and the ones who improved original ideas. Without continued efforts of both, lifestyle stagnates.
Essay 1723:
	"An idea can change your life", this famous advertisement tagline points towards a debatable topic; whether an original idea is more important to the society or a copy of the idea.
	In the world, if the product has a monopoly then it might be difficult for mass to enjoy the advantages of it. In such cases, a competition could help to keep the prices grounded. For example, Apple had launched an iPad to enjoy music which was very expensive due to its unique features. However, when the other companies launched similar products and that could be one of the reasons for the reduction of the pad prices.
	The original is always considered as a masterpiece and the copied versions are called extensions of it. That is why ‘Taj Mahal’ is one of the Seven Wonders of the World and ‘Bibi Ka Makbara’ which is a copy of it is known by local people only. Nevertheless, few ideas have to be original only and should not be experimented extensively for the safety of the planet. For instance, when scientists found nuclear power, they might have thought about its positive sides like cheaper energy. However, during the copy of this idea, some destructive mindset people might have changed it completely and developed nuclear weapons. Another example could be a sword. Our ancestors invented it to kill animals and feed the families. Unfortunately, over a period of time, its real use was forgotten and humans started using it to kill other humans in the wars.
Essay 1724:
	The world is shaped by the ideas of few people who played the role of pioneer in the society. Their ideas contributed greatly to the enhancement of social, economic and political conditions across the globe. It is agreed that such people who contribute to the world with their thoughts are valuable legends of the society. This apparent when we see how such ideas help in social reforms and technological innovations.
	The society is continuously improving and aligning to the needs of new generations. Sometimes, this requires a social reformation idea of some great people who have an extraordinary vision for the future of the society and nations. Leaders like Margret Thatcher, Nelson Mandela and Abraham Lincoln had such an extraordinary vision to change the society. For example, the idea of non-violence agitation of a single person helped India to achieve independence in 1947. Even though the real power of such ideas are manifested when the mass follow it, it is the original thoughts that bring in the change in society.
	Technological innovations often changed the way we live in this world by bringing in more efficiency and comfort. Such innovations are great ideas of fewer people and later copied by the rest of the world. For instance, Wright brothers, who invented the first airplane; Thomas Edison, who invented the electricity, have moved the world to the next level. The whole humanity is benefited from such people's idea and their contributions to the society are exponential compared to those who use these ideas.
	In conclusion, it is a known fact that an idea can change the world, and the people who innovate such an idea are invaluable to the society. Nevertheless, the people who copy their ideas and concepts indeed help the society to realise their benefits and thus contribute to the society as well.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/290-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-64-children-should-begin-learning-a-foreign-language-as-soon-as-they-start-school",
Essay 1725:
	Nowadays, we live in a globalised advance era in which learning a new language has become one of the great concerns of every person. Some people believe that since one language is not adequate for communication, children should start to learn a foreign language in their primary schools. I strongly agree with this statement due to the following reasons.
	First of all, if someone wants to see outcome soon, one must start sooner. To be more precise, brain ability in learning new language reduces with growing up. Additionally, scientists claim that unlike the misconception of parents, children do not confuse the words of their mother tongue with a studied language, but they learn more efficiently.
	Secondly, learning a new language can broaden children’s horizon because of enhancing their social skills. When they learn a foreign language, they become more interested in that country and can make a connection with more easily. Moreover, they can cope with their future issues related to their field of study by having access to the variety of sources presented in their second language.
	When children start their early education, their minds remain fresh and they can catch more information. It is the ideal time to learn a new language so they can master the language in short time. Besides, they do not learn a language all of a random. Rather this is decided by the parents, teacher and that has a cultural perspective that the children should learn at the earlier stage rather than the later stages of life.
	Finally, adults always are afraid of making mistakes when they learn a new language and this fear is one of the biggest barriers in this process. Moreover, they are always distracted with their problems related to their work, family and etc. Therefore, they need more efforts in comparison to the children.
Essay 1726:
	Language is the best means of communication. In the modern globalisation era, it is not enough to be able to speak one language to communicate with the outside world. I strongly support the idea that children should begin learning a foreign language as soon as they start school. They faster become familiar with a strange language, improve their hearing ability to understand new words as time goes by and learn new words. In the following paragraphs, I will list some reasons to support my position.
	First of all, if one wants to see outcome soon, one must start sooner. So, the early children begin to learn a new language the better will be the result. Scientists say that a child does not confuse two different languages but learns them more effectively. If children learn a foreign language at an early age, then he/she can cope with the different cultures and enjoy a better position to read more books written in foreign language.
	Second, adults are often afraid to make mistakes when they are speaking in a new language. This fear is one of the biggest barriers for a person in his efforts to speak freely. Otherwise, children do not afraid of making grammatical mistakes because basically they just repeat words and sentences in the way they hear them. Also, children have a better chance to get rid of an accent. They faster get used to the right pronunciation and better feel the melody of a language.
	To sum up, I think that it is essential for children to begin learning a foreign language in their early ages. It brings many benefits such as great pronunciation. Also, it helps a child develop and gain more knowledge which is good for a long run.
Essay 1727:
	Today, learning foreign languages is a great beneficial skill because we live in a communicated era and knowing different languages makes communication easier, therefore I personally agree that foreign language should be taught to children as early as possible.
	Firstly, human brain ability will decrease when they grow up. Several recent research indicates that children can memorise and understand new languages automatically after they are born until 4 years, and afterwards, this ability will decrease. So adults need more efforts to learn such things. As a result, it is better that somebody trains them as soon as they start school.
	Furthermore, in this age children do not have any involvement in important tasks or problems, because they do not have any responsibility to worry about and can concentrate on their study, they can learn new things quickly and more efficiently. On the contrary, adults concern about jobs, earning, future, personal and social life and many other things.  Also, they can learn another language more easily in their childhood than in adolescence period.
	Finally, some people disagree with this matter and claim that the other subjects are more important than learning foreign languages and it is better that teachers allocated the time of this subject to another field such as mathematics and science, however, researchers believe that learning a foreign language help to improve other skills, since it is very challenging and enhance the brain’s abilities.
	In conclusion, I personally think, children should learn another language as soon as possible because their brains are more ready to understand new information and also they have less distraction when they study.
Essay 1728:
	It is believed that the best time to learn a foreign language is at the early age. Therefore, some people think children should be taught new language as they start school. I personally disagree with the statement, since the children might get stressed, and there are other lessons which are more important than a foreign language. The following paragraphs will explain some of the reasons in detail.
	Firstly, it is undeniable that children start their formal education at an early age these days. Some parents have registered their children at the age of three or four, but others have enrolled their children at the age of two. During these periods, children are in the process of learning their mother tongue language. They are still learning the alphabetical words, pronunciation, grammar and vocabularies of their native languages. If the children are then taught a new language, then there is a risk that the children might get mixed up or confused.
	Secondly, the early-aged children should focus on learning other important things, besides a new language. They should learn subjects like arts and sport. Art is an essential subject for the children as it teaches them about colours and creativities, while sports are also vital for the development of the children’s physical appearance. Besides that, it is also important to teach the children about numbers as well, as it is beneficial for their further studies.  
	In conclusion, I personally disagree that the children should learn a foreign language at the early age. It is better for the children to focus on their native language first, and there are other subjects which are more important for them to learn.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/289-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-63-marriages-are-arranged-by-the-parents-but-in-other-cases-people-choose-their-own-marriage-partner",
Essay 1729:
	At the present time marriage partners are chosen by people themselves, but in the near past, this decision was made by their parents. In my view, despite those parents don't wish bad to their child, people should choose by themselves who they love. Due to that, they will spend whole their life together. The following essay will discuss both sides of this issue.
	Since the dawn of the time, the marriage was an important part of our life. Because of that choice of a partner is a tough decision and people have to consider all details before the marriage. In the near past children almost hadn't rights to choose partner by themselves, in fact, only parents could decide who their child is going to marry. Parents raised a child and all decisions related to their child should be made by them. Parents know their kid better than everyone and when they are giving them in marriage, they are taking into account the character of kid.
	But currently this situation has been changed, due to that some parents aren’t concerned about the future of their child and trying to give their child to a family which is rich, it is not always fair towards to children. Without love, there is no future for their kids and as a result, it leads to divorce. Even then, there are no ideal people and everyone could make a mistake, even when they are choosing their future partner by themselves. People always fall in love with each other before the marriage. After that, their relationships would become colder and it also could lead to divorce.
	After analysing both sides of this issue, I've concluded that in spite of those parents taking into account all details, sometimes they are forgotten about love. The main thing of marriage is to bind two people which are in love with each other. Thus, people should choose whom they love by themselves.
Essay 1730:
	The idea that a marriage should be arranged by the parents of the couple, or by other members of the family, is quite acceptable to some societies, yet completely out of the question for others. It all depends on your cultural expectations.
	In so-called western societies, it is very unusual for marriages to be arranged. Most young people would not welcome the idea that their parents have the right to choose their partner for life. They feel that arranged marriages deny them their fundamental right to choose, even if they make a bad decision. However, if we are honest about it, we might acknowledge that some parents organise their children's lives in such a way that they are likely to meet and marry partners the parents approve o£ It could be said that this is, to some extent, similar to an arranged marriage. It is always better when families support the relationship and welcome the grandchildren.
	People for whom arranged marriages are the cultural norm often argue that the likelihood of the marriage lasting is greater when it is set up in this manner. Parents can be assured that their children are joining a family of similar standing and cultural background, and this, in the long run, makes for a more stable society if your parents' marriage was arranged, and has worked well, then why should you question the custom?
	The important thing to ensure is that people are never forced into a marriage which will make them unhappy or lead to an unequal relationship where one partner is exploited by the other. This applies in all societies and situations.
Essay 1731:
	Marriage is a legal relationship between man and woman which is one of the most important parts in most of the human's life. As time went by, marriage has changed significantly. In the past, marriage was arranged by the parents or elderly relatives and it still happens today with the limited number. In contrast, nowadays, most of the people believe that choosing their own marriage partner is the best way to have a long-lasting relationship. This essay will compare and discuss both systems.
	Each country has its own culture and tradition. From thousands or more cultures, marriage is a common tradition almost in all countries and traditions. In some countries, mainly in Asia, arranged marriage is very common. Marriage is arranged by parents or flesh and blood to determine the best spouse for their children. It is believed by people who conduct this system that even if the bride and groom do not love each other at the beginning, love will bloom eventually. Moreover, these people assume that the benefits of arranged marriage outstrip the drawbacks. By arranging marriage, parents can protect their children from negative relationships like free sex or cohabitation. Besides, the possibility of divorce is declined since the parents generally select their children's spouse based on the similar background such as religion, tradition, language, and socio-economic class.
	From another point of view, many people support that marriage should be based on love. They believe that everyone has the rights to fall in love and take a decision about his/ her own marriage partner, without intervention from others. Love marriage or marriage which comes from an own choice is very popular in western countries and also in this modern era. It is commonly believed that if people marry because of love, they will have a romantic relationship. Since they have recognised each other, they are able to respect and accept their spouses' weaknesses. In addition, people who opt to this way have a responsibility for their own choice. They will try to cope with their problems and find solutions for their marriage's life. They understand that they cannot blame anyone, including their parents because the decision to marry comes from them. This is the trends I am inclined to. My personal preference is to marry for love and choosing my own life partner.
	In conclusion, both arranged marriage and love marriage have positive and negative sides. People can choose what they think good to do or not. Nevertheless, I believe that marriage is a sacred and beautiful relationship. If people decide to marry, they have to understand that respect to each other is as important as love. They should respect not only to their spouses but also to their parents and families.
Essay 1732:
	It is a fact that in several countries, marriages are still set by parents, but in other countries, people have their own right to choose their wedding partners. The mixtures of these two trends are also common in many societies and countries. The following essay will discuss both facts, but I do believe that it is better for us to choose our own partner.
	For a number of reasons, some parents still follow the tradition of choosing a partner for their child. Firstly, since it is a tradition that has been passed on for so many generations in the society. They are afraid that it might be a taboo if they do not follow it and could be isolated by the community. Secondly, they believe that parents would give the best of everything to their child. They think that parents are wiser and more mature, therefore they could select a good partner for their child.
	However, other groups of people disagree with the above statement, as they believe that people should have the right to choose their own partner. They believe that a relationship should be built based on love and attraction, not based on enforcement. As marriage becomes a special moment in someone’s life, he should get married to the person he loves or he might regret it for the rest of his life. Therefore, they all agree that people should have their own right to choose their own married partner.
	In my opinion, I personally believe that we should have the right to choose our own spouse, as I agree that marriage is a special moment in someone’s life. And I think that the tradition of arranging married by parents should not be considered anymore as it is against the human right.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/288-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-62-fashion-trends-are-difficult-to-follow-these-days-and-it-s-widely-believed-that-they-primarily-exist-just-to-sell-clothes",
Essay 1733:
	Nowadays, we live in consumerism advanced era in which whether following fashion trends or not has become a debatable issue, especially, among the young generation. Some people believe that pursuing this trend is a good way of improving people’s lifestyles, while many others argue that people should dress something more comfortable. I advocate the latter group at least for two main reasons elaborated below.
	The first group claim that in this day and age, wearing in vogue clothes enhances the sense of pride and self-confident among the people. In addition, it is a necessary task for celebrities and famous individuals. Of course, they are right to some extent, but I am of the conception that the drawbacks of following this trend outweigh its benefits.
	Firstly, it is obvious that fashion is a changeable trend by its nature. Consequently, following this dynamic procedure cost so much and it is kind of wasting people’s money and time. As an example, one of my cousins allocates more than fifty percent of his income to the latest attire instead of saving it for his future life. Moreover, it should be mentioned that the main purpose of wearing clothes is to protect humans’ body from different weather conditions rather than showing off.
	Secondly, people’s clothes should illustrate their own personality and uniqueness instead of mocking someone else who works for the film or fashion industry. To be more precise, people should appreciate their own tastes, believes. However, the predominant feature of fashion is being against the traditions and cultures of many societies.
	All in all, from what has been discussed, I pen down saying that although pursuing fashion might be a pleasant task for some people, it is an expensive and improper trend in a long run.
Essay 1734:
	It’s widely believed in today’s materialistic world that the latest innovative fashion trends hold great significance. On the other hand, such trends are believed to be set only in the pursuit of profits for large designer companies. It seems that in recent times, people are now changing their minds in regards to wearing clothes for comfort and as a personal choice. Personally, I agree that we should pay more attention to individuality and comfort in the way we dress.
	Firstly, fashion designs exist as a form of creative artistic expression of the designer. Although this may be true, undoubtedly such designs take away individuality once a trend is set in place. By this, I mean that there is nothing unique about wearing what everybody else does. More specifically, if everyone sports the latest colour and design in summer skirts, do we not look the same?
	Secondly, It is possible that fashion trends can look extremely stylish to the general public. However, it can be argued that the main purpose of wearing clothes is for more functional reasons. This is primarily due to the fact that clothes were traditionally worn to protect people from climatic conditions. For instance, clothes are still worn basically to keep people warm and dry in winter and cool in summer.
	Finally, fashion certainly gives us a sense of confidence and pride in our appearance. While this is certainly a good point, it also means that following such changeable trends proves to be expensive. For example, purchasing every latest season’s fashion item will, of course, blow the budget of many young people.
	In conclusion, there are various arguments to support the dismissal of fashion trends, consisting of not conforming, comfort and price, which I strongly agree with.
Essay 1735:
	The fashion industry is thriving like never before, and the fashion trends change very frequently these days. What was in vogue yesterday becomes obsolete today. I believe sometimes it is good to buy things which are in fashion but otherwise, people should dress in clothes that they are comfortable in.
	Firstly, following fashion trends is very expensive and a waste of money for the people who do not belong to fashion and film industry. Apparels and accessories which are in trend are generally very costly and sometimes pinch a hole in one’s pocket. Moreover, they go out of fashion very quickly and are not wearable after a certain point. For instance, in India silk sarees were in fashion in mid 90’s and they would range from Rs. 5000 – 50000; but now they are out of fashion and different material like brocade, chiffon or net are in vogue.
	Secondly, I think it is more important to feel comfortable and confident in what you wear. It is not necessary that the clothes in fashion will suit your body type. For instance, Indian actress, Vidya Balan garnered a lot of criticism when she tried to follow the trends and dressing up in the western outfit which did not suit her body, culture and style. But then she went back to her roots and started dressing up in traditional Indian wears and now she always looks stunning and critics do not through fire on her.
	In a nutshell, it is of utmost important that people buy clothes which are more wearable and in-line with their lifestyle. Fashion trends change in every season and it is merely a tactic to sell clothes. If one wears clothes they are confident and comfortable in, they will automatically look good.
Essay 1736:
	Many people believe that following fashion style is difficult, and they also think that the main purpose of the trend is to sell more clothing apparel. A group of people believe that people should choose their own clothing based on their preference rather than following the update fashion style. To a certain point, I would agree that we should select the clothes that we like and feel comfort in wearing them, but following the fashion style bring many additional points.
	On the one hand, it is true that people should wear clothes which are in accordance with their own interest. It is obvious that everyone has his own personal taste in fashion, as some people like loose clothing since they are more comfortable to wear. But there are others who prefer to wear tight clothing because the clothes make them feel young and energetic. Besides that, fashion trends are dynamic and change rapidly in just a few months or periods. Some people think it is consumptive to follow the latest style since people must buy clothes more often.
	On the other hand, it is undeniable that following the up to date fashion style has some advantages for the individuals. Firstly, by wearing the latest style, some people feel more confident in their business. For example, a sales manager might meet many potential clients, and he must have a great confidence in convincing his customer and one of the ways would be to wear a stylish dress. Secondly, it is a fact that certain people are measuring someone based on his physical and clothing appearance. For instance, should there be two potential candidates in a job interview; both have nice personalities, good technical skill and a wide range of knowledge, but one of the candidates wears old fashioned clothes, while the other follow the modest fashion style. The later candidates might have a higher probability of being selected since many people are appraising someone based on their physical appearance and performance.
	In conclusion, following the latest fashion style is difficult and it is just a commercial act of the producers themselves.  Although it is true that people should wear clothes based on their own preference but I do believe that we should also follow the latest fashion style since it also affects our own performance.
Essay 1737:
	During the early days of civilisation, clothing was nothing more than a simple need of every human being. All they ever needed was a piece of clothing to cover and protect themselves from the harsh weather the Mother Nature had to offer.
	But times have changed. This simple need of man has transformed into a lucrative business, alluring people from all ages regardless of their gender or social status.
	The world of fashion has grown at an astonishing rate during the past couple of years. Companies such as Dolce & Gabbana, Levis, Tommy Hilfiger are some brands that have been dominating the market with fashion trends bringing in millions of dollars in revenue annually. Yet, there remains the question “Is this really worth it?”.
	People pay an absurd amount of money to buy clothes which do not suit them nor do not make them feel comfortable. Yet, they purchase these for social status, prestige and bragging rights. In my honest opinion, I feel these fashion trends have brought in social discrimination among the young crowd. Kids with simple clothing feel inferior to those who look highly fashionable wearing branded clothing.
Essay 1738:
	Clothes designers overwhelm us nowadays with quick changing fashion developments and new trends. It's commonly thought that the aim for fashion organisers is merely due to economic reasons. There are some groups in society who totally ignore these commercialised influences and insist on wearing what is convenient to them. In addition to the purpose of clothing to be practical and light to wear, it's quite a waste to follow seasonal modes. In this way, our choices are limited and we have to dispose of our unfashionable outfits. Instead of discarding those clothes we could keep them and combine them the next season.
	Among teens, clothes play a primary role in creating social establishments. Pupils chose to wear well-known brands with the negative consequences for those who can't afford to buy these. In my opinion, it's easier for both parents and youth to be obliged to wear a school uniform. Then students will be valued only according behaviour and not by their newest dress.
	Although I am convinced that clothing companies are interested in their bank account and use fashion as a way to attract potential buyers, for some it may be a rescue. Some people just don't have a notion for what fits together. They need a professional eye to advice them what to buy and what to wear. Maybe also in some circles society imposes on them what to wear.
	In summary, I think people should wear what they love and prefer. They should feel free to improvise and use their imagination. Society will be more vivid and gay if people wear what they like without certain boundaries pressing on them.
Essay 1739:
	The numbers of fashion models have grown dramatically in the last decade. All the movie stars are having their own dressing styles and following their fashion trend is getting very difficult to follow. Moreover, following these trends creates a false identity about the person as he is trying to mock the dressing style of somebody else. Even Though few dressing styles enhance the physical appearance of the individuals, it masks the individual characteristics and creates a false identity of the person.
	Secondly, the amount of strain these fashion trends places on the individuals are enormous. A good friend of mine who works at a call centre spends seventy percent of his monthly salary on the wardrobe shopping and following fashion trends. He subscribed to all the leading magazines. The house where he lives has several posters of movie stars like Will Smith and Angelina Julie. Another friend of mine realised after the end of his adolescent life that following fashion trends is such a waste of time and money and he is left with no savings.
	To summarise, I strongly believe that we should dress what we like and what we feel comfortable in as that will bring out the true individualistic characters and put less stress on the monthly budget. After all, we have a single life and I would rather fail to live my life than to try and live somebody else life.
Essay 1740:
	Fashion industries have no doubt revolutionised our dressing standards by making us look more stylish and versatile after wearing designer outfit. Wardrobes are more filled with brands than actually dressing needs of a person. People believe that we should not blindly follow the modern dressing style, rather we should wear what we like and which suits our personality and I fully adhere to it. This essay will analyse the demerits of following fashion trends.
	Firstly, fashion designs represent the creativity and innovation of a designer and it hides our own identity. It seems that we are showcasing their brand when we move in the society, be it shopping malls or social gatherings. Following modern style blindly takes away our uniqueness and tags us with brand names.
	Secondly, fashions trends are set to benefit industries more than to the consumer on the monetary base. People spend hundreds and thousands just to buy branded dresses that will make them look stylish in social gatherings. Designers rip their money on the sake of their creativity. Fashion trends also give rise to competition in the global market, which again benefits the industry.
	Finally, wearing latest design suits certainly makes us proud and our stylish look appeases the general public, but one should not forget that the basic purpose of wearing clothes is to protect ourselves from the climatic changes. For instance, we usually wear warm clothing in winters, if we wear designer's light fabric just to follow the trend we might fell ill.
	One should always wear comfortable outfits that shine their personality. We should not waste our money on buying latest designer's suits just because others are doing so. If this trend continues, it will give rise to competition which may take away our identities, cultural and traditional norms.
Essay 1741:
	It's gone a level out of hand, according to me. You simply can't dress up to the trends in the fashion world these days and expect to lead a normal life. For me, fashion is about being you and giving a picture of yourself or I say portraying yourself to the world. It's not about following someone or what people do. It's more of your own personal thing rather than adapting someone's style completely, as the fashion trend right now is that. For me being yourself and dressing up what you think suits you the best and being comfortable physically and mentally but at the same time looking good and presentable to the outside world. It's a hard task getting all the combinations right. Maybe I'm a fashionable person, as I get appreciated most times which made me feel that fashion is just about being yourself and not always about following the existing trend. Some might disagree. I say set your own trends.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/287-business-organisations-should-hire-employees-for-their-entire-lives",
Essay 1742:
	First of all, I will least the major disadvantages for employers. In today's market, a company must be very flexible in order to compete with other firms. So, imagine the situation when a company can not fire its employees to stay on the market. It will lead to loose not only profits but the clients, market share and competitive ability also. Now, imagine the situation when a company is growing fast, everything is good and the next few years are going to be excellent. So, employers need more people to extend the production. However, nobody can tell what will happen in a few years. In this case, employers will be afraid to hire new people and extend their business because they will not be able to fire them if something goes wrong. Another important aspect of this is that a company can not have the best employees. It can not hire the better one without dismissing another employee.
	What kind of disadvantages will have an employee in exchange for this kind of job security? First of all, it will be very difficult to find a job if one is not the best because an employer does not want to spend money on one's education. Besides, an employer will not have a chance to fire one if he does not do his job well. Secondly, employees with this kind of security tend not to perfect themselves because after they are hired they can not lose their job.
	In conclusion, I would like to add that this statement has some positive aspects too such as constancy, a strong spirit of the company, etc. This system takes place in Japan and some companies succeeded in it. But I think that the reason of it subsists in the Japanese traditions, the particular cultural features, habits and customs. However, in today's market, here in the United States, a company can not afford to hire employees for their entire life.
Essay 1743:
	The issue whether the business organisations should hire employees for their entire life or not is a widely debated issue. It’s quite a debatable topic as it has both positive and negative impacts on organisations as well as people working in those organisations.
	To look at the positive side, hiring people for entire life earns their loyalty to an organisation which is an important attribute any company look forward to in its employees. Employees feel much more confident while working as they are not insecure about their job and future. This also creates a high level of Job satisfaction among employees. Loyalty and satisfied employees are any organisation's biggest strength and help the company succeed and reach a new height. As employee foresee their future with the company, they see their growth in the organisation's growth. So they work with full passion to achieve company goals eyeing their growth as part of the organisation.
	But hiring people for the lifetime will have some negative impacts also on organisations. As employees know they have been hired for the lifetime, they tend to take their jobs for granted and this ultimately reduces their productivity. When people work in the same place they tend to loose passion and zeal to work. Although it makes them comfortable with their work and they generate outputs currently but they will not feel passionate about their work in the long run. Also in such cases, it’s difficult to get any innovations done by the employees. These are not good signs for any organisation's growth
	Looking at both positive and negative sides, I feel organisation should hire for a long term to make employees feel secure and productive. As part of appreciation for productive and effective employees, an organisation can make them employed for a lifetime. This will set a good example for all employees.
Essay 1744:
	Companies tend to hire people for the completion of tasks of various natures. Some tasks demand only short-time commitment and others continues in a long run. Some people argue that people will work with lofty ambitions, high dedication and a great commitment if they are hired for their lifetime. However, others claim that it is unfair for those people who are studying in different educational institutions and hoping a bright future ahead, I believe that a job for the entire life is not a pragmatic approach and creates many problems in a society.
	It is often seen that businesses thrive by applying innovative ideas and modern technologies. These are two areas where students have been taught in deeply to cope up with challenges in their future. Therefore, it is mandatory for businesses to take fresh graduates and discard people in a company who lack behind in skills and knowledge. Furthermore, the unemployment rate will dramatically increase in the absence of jobs in the market. Because all jobs are occupied for lives and there are less likely to have chances of vacant places.
	However, there is no doubt that people performances are extraordinary if they have confined feeling of job security. They would like to work hard to achieve maximum benefits for a company. Thus, their efforts will reflect in increased productivity and profit margin of the business.
	To sum up, I would like to say that hiring employees for the lifetime is not a practical strategy in a business. Companies use people for the sake of their own benefits and reward them until there is a need for that skill in the company. Moreover, unemployment, frustration and tension are few factors which could greatly influence youngsters if businesses adopt this policy.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/286-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-60-people-have-different-job-expectations-for-jobs",
Essay 1745:
	In the modern workplace, there is no longer the attitude that ‘a job is for life’. Nowadays, many people take the option to change jobs, while others prefer not to. In my essay, I will explore the good and bad points of the above attitudes.
	One of the main benefits of staying in one job is security. Changing employer often means a period of instability, where one may have to think about moving house, or temporarily losing a steady source of income. Staying in one job means these problems are avoided.
	Another benefit of not changing occupation is that one is able to gain a lot of experience and expertise in his specific profession, thus enhancing job security. One’s company may recognise their loyalty and reward their service. On the other hand, those who often change jobs may be seen as unreliable, lacking in experience and employers might be reluctant to hire and invest training in them.
	However, there are arguments in favour of changing job frequently. One is that a worker improves his employability. Working in several different jobs often means that the individual has more skills. Such people are seen as more dynamic and versatile.
	Another benefit of changing jobs frequently is that one never gets stuck in a rut. From my own experience, I got bored when I spent too long in a job. Following this, the quality of my work would suffer. I also believe that employers generally don’t tend to greatly reward loyalty or commitment. Increased wages and promotion are often easier to attain by changing jobs.
	Overall, it can be said that the disadvantages of changing jobs are the advantages of staying put, and vice versa... In my opinion, I feel that changing jobs every once in a while is of more benefit.
Essay 1746:
	Firstly, if people endure in the same company in the same job, then they gain a lot of experience which is counted to offer promotion ultimately and that results in salary hike. Moreover, for this scenario responsibility increases, it provides security and also shows loyalty to a company. So, the company recognises the employee as a trustworthy person and offers many benefits including foreign job promotions. On the other hand, continuing a job in the same company for a longer time is a slow process of career growth. Same work throughout the career is also tedious to many people.
	Secondly, switching from one job to another job will bring challenging environment whether they continue in the same company or not. While doing this, they get chances of having new social relations, gain different job skills. By continuous changes, new pictures come to the screen. So, ultimately the person will be fresher to the new job. But if the transferring takes place with the same job among various companies lead to quick career growth. In general, more people become interested to follow this process. The one big advantage is salary hikes will be more.
	Finally, I strongly opine that continuous change in job provides quick career growth. While staying in a single job in the same company avoids personal problems like shifting house, children's education growth, adjusting to new environment etc.    
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/285-should-city-preserve-old-historic-buildings-or-destroy-them",
Essay 1747:
	Industrialization has evolved, thus leading to an insatiable desire for wealth. Demolishing of old buildings for spaces to build casinos and hotels has been a norm these days. Old buildings are a depiction of our native history for example; the Jalian Wala Bagh in Amritsar, shows the people who lost their lives, this revives patriotism in the youth. The Taj Mahal in India, a monument of love serves as an example of unconditional love. These are emblems which will assist children to learn history. In New Zealand, old earth pots were discovered from old monuments, that helped assess which cereals our ancestors ate.
	Secondly, History revitalizes the tourism industry, an instance of this is the Fort Jesus Museum in Mombasa, Kenya. A huge number of local and foreign tourists pay a visit to the museum regularly. This thus leads to an appreciation of the local currency and cross-cultural pollination, therefore bringing a country to a trajectory model. The funds raised through tourism may be used for refurbishing the old structures.
	To recapitulate it all, I firmly believe historical structures are a heritage of any country. Thereby destroying them is like unleashing a lethal war on our history. An example is better than a precept, and history can, therefore, be taught by the use of old monuments.
Essay 1748:
	Some people think that old, historic buildings are no need for the city and they should be destroyed and replaced with modern ones. However, other people believe that historic buildings must be preserved in order to know and remember our past. For several reasons that I will mention bellow, I agree with those people who want to preserve old, historical buildings.
	First of all, by preserving historical buildings we pass our history to our future generations. I think that our children should know their history, learn from it and respect it. People need to know their traditions and customs, which are priceless and irreplaceable. Our history is our knowledge and power. In my opinion, we need to preserve and restore historical buildings. By destroying them we show our disrespect to our forefathers and their traditions.
	Second of all, by preserving historical buildings a city can attract many travellers. Welcoming tourists a city can get many benefits including money, which can be spent on preserving historical buildings as well as on improving roads and facilities. Every city has its own tradition and history which is reflected through the art and creation of the building mostly. Destroying those heritage means destroying the old value and history.
	Also, many tourists mean a lot of new business opportunities. Another important aspect of this is that businessmen will be willing to build new recreational centres, hotels, movie theatres, shopping centres to make a city more attractive to travellers. In addition to those practical benefits, many people will have the opportunity to get a job. All this is good for the economy of the city.
	To sum up, I believe that preserving old, historical buildings can bring only benefits to a city and all humankind.
Essay 1749:
	Modernization has resulted in the rapid expansion of cities, which has left its heritage and culture behind. Day by day new commercial complexes and other buildings are coming up in the place of older buildings. Sometimes historically significant buildings have been demolished to build new structures. This has stirred into an interesting debate on whether the historic buildings should become the prey of modernization or not.
	Firstly, conserving historical building is a means of transferring the ancestral legacy to future generations. These are a great means for our children to learn about our culture and heritage, also such monuments often give insight into our ancestor's lifestyle. Knowing our history and giving respect to it is very much important to advocate patriotism in young people.
	Secondly, such buildings will attract more tourists, hence, the tourism industry will grow. This brings more money, thus improves the lives of people over there. This money could be used to preserve and renovate such buildings. Additionally, a city becomes well known among other parts and this increases chances of getting more funds and investments.
	Finally, increased tourism means increased income. To cater to the increasing number of tourists’ new hotels, resorts and better facilities have to be built. Apart from bringing more money, it increases employment opportunities too.
	In my opinion, preserving such buildings would greatly benefit the economy and also teaches future generations about their history, culture and traditions. Furthermore, it significantly contributes to infrastructure developments and modernization, at the same time allows saving cultural beauty.
Essay 1750:
	It is believed that old, historic buildings are not useful to the community and they occupy space in an already premium location. Take Colosseum of Rome for example, the building occupies a lot of space in the middle of a city but it has more advantages that compensate for the loss of premium due to land cost. It can be argued that contemporary buildings have more advantages than disadvantages by analysing the impact due to culture and revenue from tourism in these buildings.
	The rich cultural and heritage of our ancestors can only be passed down to future generations through such structures. The structure is evidence of history and portrays itself to provide a comparison of lifestyle evolution since the recorded history. As an illustration, Eiffel tower standing tall in the centre of the city was built about a century ago. It clearly is not having any useful money generating purpose apart from tourism. However, the future generations can take it as a proof for the existence of scholars who could build skyscrapers which could last several centuries without the use of modern technology and equipment. The pride of owning such engineering marvel is priceless.
	Secondly, the government’s spending to preserve this building is benefitted multiple folds through the revenue generating by touring individuals. The revenue generated from the Tirupathi temple, for instance, accounts for the second largest revenue generating source after tax revenue in case of Andhra Pradesh. Hence, it can be clearly seen that the amount of effort and the time invested by city authorities could fetch a very attractive return over investment than building modern structures.
	On the other hand, due to the migration of people from countrysides and population expansion within cities, there is a huge demand for real estate space. There is increasing pressure on local governments to demolish heritage buildings due to inefficient use of space inside them. For instance, Singapore which has a total area of 27 km2 cannot afford to have a large colosseum. These days, though, local bodies are coming up with innovative ideas like moving an entire building by fitting wheels under them. Such techniques can be used instead of destroying the culture and revenue from them.
	In short, preserving a historic building within a city proves to be a highly valuable proposition than replacing them with modern buildings. Hence it is recommended to city officials for looking into every possible alternative than demolishing the historic monuments.
Essay 1751:
	Past and future have to be a part of every city's characteristics; this is what makes cities different and diverse. That’s how we get attracted to one city and feels bored at another. Walking in the streets alone should give us an idea of the history of the city or how technologically advanced it is. So, I think it is a critical task and an influencing one on the inhabitants of the city to decide what historical buildings to keep and what to replace with modern iconic ones. This balance can keep the soul of a city and still hold a place on the race of development.
	On another hand, I think it is crucial to keep a significant amount of any city's historical buildings as it teaches people about their past and how they actually developed, it grows a sense of loyalty and patriotism; it increases the feeling of ownership and in return preservation. In general these impacts positively on society and on the message any visitor leaves with after a visit.
	Here comes to mind how the city of Munich in Germany rebuilt and still most of the historical buildings destroyed during the world war two, it is an accurate imitation of the original destroyed building using archived photos and old blueprints, this shows how significant history is to their culture and way of life.
	In brief, it's not the buildings that are preserved, it's the history, the stories behind those buildings and the people spent parts of their lives on those buildings, preserving all this will never happen unless there are still remains of their presence and those buildings stands as a witness and a living proof of this existence.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/284-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-58-advertising-encourages-us-to-buy-things-that-we-really-do-not-need",
Essay 1752:
	The purpose of advertising is to tell the consumer about any new product or service or any new promotion on the existing product and service. We need it so we can make good decisions when we go shopping. Advertising tells us when new and improved products become available and lets us know which ones have the best price.
	Through advertisements, we learn about new products. For example, many grocery stores now sell prepackaged lunches. These are very convenient for busy parents. They can give these lunches to their children to take to school. Busy parents don’t have time to look at every item on the store shelf, so without advertisements, they might not know about such a convenient new product.
	Even products we are familiar with may be improved, and advertising lets us know about this. Most people use cell phones, but new types of cell phone service become available all the time. There are different plans that give you more hours to talk on the phone, you can send text messages and photos, and next week probably some even newer type of service will be available. By watching advertisements on TV it is easy to find out about new improvements to all kinds of products.
	Advertisements keep us informed about prices. Prices change all the time, but everyone can look at the ads in the newspaper and see what the latest prices are. Advertisements also inform us about sales. In fact, some people buy the newspaper only in order to check the prices and plan their weekly shopping.
	Advertisements improve our lives by keeping us informed about the latest products developments and the best prices. Advertisements serve a useful purpose.
	From the other side, I think that advertisements of the new detergents with up-to-date formulas to help you maintain your cloth in perfect conditions, the new cars with some extra futures that make your travelling more comfortable and sports goods that make your life healthier may help you to improve your life.
	Recently my husband and I saw an ad on the Internet about a very interesting and inexpensive vacation to Japan for a week. Is not it awesome? We like travelling. So now we are planning to find out more about it and, maybe, make reservations. I believe that, without advertisements, we would be unaware about plenty of opportunities that may make our life happier, easier and less stressful.
	My point is that every person has his own scale of values. So if he is vegetarian he will consider an ad about meat products useless for him.
Essay 1753:
	In a literal sense, Advertising is an art of showcasing a product to its future consumers. When a company or a person advertise a product he is conveying how the product would benefit the consumer with its unique and best features. Since the Inception of consumer markets merchants have been using Advertising and marketing to sell their product and increase their reach to maximum consumers. I am in absolute discord with the statement that Advertising insists people to buy things they do not need. In my view, Advertising is a key tool in the market mechanism and can benefit customers and ultimately merchants in several ways like spreading awareness, increasing competition, discourage monopoly and help the overall economy.
	Advertising has helped and is continuing to help spread the right information and makes a consumer cognizant of what is available in the market. It helps drive the competition upwards benefitting the end customer by getting varied options to choose. For example, when 'Colgate' came in the market as the first toothpaste, consumers did not have any other option other than Colgate until other companies like 'Close-up' started advertising their product. This resulted in a boost in the competition which ultimately slashed the prices of the product. Thus, Advertising plays a very important role in engaging the end customer such that the buyer gets the best worth of what he is spending. While a consumer is the end target and beneficiary of any product produced by a merchant, a consumer is also the best judge of the decisions he takes in terms of what he wants to buy. In my opinion, it is inappropriate to blame the advertising for an increased consumer spending. To curb the unnecessary spending both people and government have to work collectively. People need to be wary of their spending and pay heed to their finances by managing them smartly. A government can play its part in authorising and monitoring the right contents to be published to the public. Hence, right and smart advertising can help a nation and its population in great ways by exploiting the benefits of advertising.
	To draw the conclusion, barring a few disadvantages Advertising can be used as a tool to enhance the growth of an economy by increasing the spending, bringing the right products to the consumer, boosting the competition. Even Government can use smart adverts to make people aware of managing their finances and increase financial literacy. All in all, I would recommend healthier advertising to benefit the consumer, merchant and ultimately the world economy.
Essay 1754:
	If we have never seen an advertisement of a product and first time see that product in the market, we never want to buy. That is, we do not like to just try. If we have already seen that product in the advertisement, we may want to buy it and see how it works. That is by seeing an advertisement over and over again, we indirectly become familiar with that product before we buy and use it. To make us familiar with the products, the product owners make sure we watch their  advertisements again and again.    
	In the advertisement, they show only the advantages of the product. That is an advantage for the marketers, but a disadvantage for the customers. While the marketing people encourage us to buy the things, we need to identify its disadvantages only after experiencing the product or services.  
	Some products are really essential for our life while some are not at all essential. Sometimes we purchase products that are optional for us. We may experience a new detergent powder since it was telecasted several times.  This is the insisting part of advertisements on customers’ mind.
	Each customer is different. All are not same. Same product will not convince all the public. Some products target children, kinder joy, chocolates, toys, cartoon products and etc. Even though parents know that a product is not good for their children, but they are insisted in buying the product by the children. Children get attracted to a product after  they see the advertisement on television. Finally, I would conclude, that advertising encourages us to buy things that we really do not need.               
Essay 1755:
	Promotion of new products is appealing to customers. People watch them in electronic media and in newspapers and feel that it will be useful for their needs. On the other hand, we often waste our money and time after observing fascinating advertisement. In my opinion, it is useful for market trends. The advertisement has multidimensional impacts on economics and society, its benefits overweight disadvantages.
	Most of the people do not like the monotonous life. They keep on changing their surroundings and personality. The requirement of humans changes with their ages. The advertisement is the method to introduce new products to people. Every person is busy in his day to day routine and they do not have enough time to wonder in shops and malls. Moreover through different media, one can see his favourite models in a good mood for describing the advantages of products.
	Few media heads do not keep an eye over the validity of the information given in the description of promotion. Young people like their heroes like mentors and follow their footprints. In third world countries, health hazard products like cigarette are being advertised.  As a result, man will buy the things which he does not need currently.  These new purchase will be made at the cost of many other useful objects which he may be requiring actually.
	In conclusion, advertisements are very useful for boosting the economy and it helps people to seek accurate products. A government should maintain the standard of promoting the products and injurious things must be banned on media.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/283-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-57-a-person-should-never-make-an-important-decision-alone",
Essay 1756:
	From my everyday experience and observation, I can claim that discussion of an important decision with other people brings many benefits. In the following paragraphs, I will give my reasons to defend this statement.
	First of all, different people have different opinions. In order to make the right choice people should discuss every possible decision and its consequences. Making an important decision alone can bring many negative aspects. For instance, a person can reveal his selfishness or impatience and the consequences of that decision can affect many people in the future. I think that a good and wise decision can be born only by great discussions because people can share their knowledge and experiences a look at the problem from different sides and aspects.
	Second of all, I think that making an important decision alone is unacceptable especially for a company. Imagine that a chief makes the decision about increasing a production line without discussing it with his employees. In this case, a part of company's profit will be spending on extended purchase of raw materials. So the shareholders will be left without dividends. This decision may lead to getting rid of company's shares and as a result of this declining the value of a company as a whole.
	Finally, taking a big decision without discussing others is sometimes negative because when the question arises of taking a major decision, people often feel tensed and for this single reason he/ she can't think about all the issue.Again our friends , family members, co-workers care about us so much and when they are asked to opine about and issue like : 'whether I should do it or not' ; they will give the best opinion possible as well as both negative and positive sides.    
	To sum up, I think that a person should always consult his relatives or colleges when making an important decision to avoid possible mistakes.
Essay 1757:
	People's lives are directly influenced by their decisions which range from trivial daily decisions to life-altering decisions. In my view, a person should seek an objective opinion for people around him are likely to be affected by his decisions.
	Being independent should always be encouraged but not at the expense of other people’s lives. As we grow older, our responsibility for people around us expands as well. As a result, decisions which may seem personal at first sight can indirectly affect our immediate family members. For example, relocation to another city due to changing jobs may have an adverse impact on our children as they need to adjust to a whole new environment and make new friends in a completely strange setting. In such cases, consulting with a spouse is critical, and sometimes seeking the opinion of somebody with a relevant experience can be helpful. By doing this, individuals will be able to weigh the entire options make an informed decision.
	In some cases, person's decisions affect the people beyond just his friends and family. These individuals assume the responsibility for a community or the whole nation. Countries under a dictatorship regime, therefore, sometimes suffer the consequences of un-consulted decisions made by just one person. In a modern world, we can afford to have such centralised leadership neither in our organisations nor in our governments. That is the very reason why the Board of Directors and the Congress plays such an important role.
	To sum up, even the personal decisions may have an indirect effect on people around, therefore consulting with one's close friends or family is strongly advised. If the decisions we make concern the people on a larger scale, then we, most definitely, must assure to receive an unbiased feedback before making an informed decision.
Essay 1758:
	Making decision is a sensitive issue to everyone and it needs attention and full understanding. In other opinions, they believe that a person should not urge to do any relevant decision alone.
	In decision making there are many factors needs to be considered like the age, level of mental and physical wellbeing and position in life. In some countries like the Philippines person below 18 years old considered as a minor and don't let to establish any commitment especially in legal aspects like marriage, job, and health operations. Approval and consent of parents are required before any minors allow doing any certain actions. It is believed that a below 18 years old person don't have the capacity to stand alone and still dependent with their guardians. Their minds are still immature and it demands experience. Some of their decisions are too aggressive and do not realise the advantages and disadvantages of many things. Their decisions are easily influenced by high emotions and don't listen or pay attention to different advice and selections that may result in a positive or negative outcome.
	Another example of these is in the government, senators are not allowed to take any decisions by themselves for the nation. Superior people need to account their opinion and signature in order to establish any law and bills. In these ways, the probability of being bias is lessened. It is also a manner of respect to the person in a higher position.
	In addition to that, people with mental problems also need full attention when it comes to choosing or deciding to any options. Their process of thinking is not reliable anymore due to some diminished brain functions and some congenital problems with their brains.
	In summary, committing to any decisions demand high responsibility and component in order to deliver a positive or negative results.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/282-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-56-television-has-destroyed-communication-among-friends-and-family",
Essay 1759:
	The invention of television is undoubtedly one of the humankind's greatest inventions. It is a way of communication among people of one country and different countries and nations. People watch TV to find out about the latest news, weather, sports, etc. It is a great way to learn new and extend one's range of interests. Scientists say that children spend the same amount of hours in front of TV as they do in school. I think that this can be said about many grown people too. Also, television is a great means of eliminating stress and tension. One can relax and leave one's troubles behind lying on one's favourite sofa and watching a comedy. However, some people believe that television has destroyed communication among friends and family.
	Personally, I do not agree with this statement. A couple centuries ago people spent their time gambling, reading, gossiping or playing chess. I do not think that television is a cause of destroyed communication among family members and friends. First of all, if members of a family have common interests and they want to make each other happy they will always find many ways to spend their time together and be close. Otherwise, if people avoid each other and they do not have anything to share with each other they will find television a great way to escape from this miserable existence. I believe that many people chose family and their friends over some soap operas or a movie.
	Second of all, I think that television can be a great resource of subjects to discuss. Many people watch different educational programs to find out more about their environment, nature, wildlife animals, economic situations, etc. So, when they gather with their friends they discuss important issues and argue with each other in looking for the truth.
	My husband and I often watch the news channel to keep abreast of the latest news. After that, we always discuss some issues we concerned about. Also, we like to watch a TV show "the funniest animals". We like this program because it makes us laugh. I cannot imagine how these programs can prevent our communication and be harmful to our relations.
	To conclude, I would like to add that if people want to communicate with each other they will find a way to do it. Otherwise, if television were not existent, people would find other escapes and reasons not to be with each other such as drugs, gambling, etc.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/281-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-55-the-number-of-overweight-children-in-developed-countries-is-increasing",
Essay 1760:
	There is plenty of evidence to suggest that children are overweight and the situation is getting worse, according to the medical experts. I feel there are a number of reasons for this.
	Some people blame the fact that we are surrounded by shops selling unhealthy, fatty foods such as chips and fried chicken, at low prices. This has created a whole generation of adults who have never cooked a meal for themselves. If there were fewer of these restaurants, then children would not be tempted to buy takeaway food.
	There is another argument that blames the parents for allowing their children to become overweight. I tend to agree with this view, because good eating habits begin early in life, long before children start to visit fast food outlets. If children are given chips, ice creams and chocolate rather than nourishing food, or are always allowed to choose what they eat, they will go for the sweet and salty foods every time, and this will carry on throughout their lives. Parents decide what to buy and let their children eat and many parents know and feel that their children are overweight and yet let them eat high calorie contained foods like fast foods. If parents try to make their kids understand that those type of fast foods are not good for their health and draw a restriction on how much their kids are allowed to eat then the problem can be solved partially.  
	There is a third factor, however, which contributes to the situation. Children these days take very little exercise. They do not walk to school. When they get home, they sit in front of the television or their computers and play video games. Not only is this an unhealthy pastime, it also gives them time to eat more junk food. What they need is to go outside and play active games or sport.
	The two views discussed play an equal role in contributing to the problem, but I think we have to encourage young people to be more active, as well as steering them away from fast food outlets and bad eating habits. We need to have a balanced approach.
	An increasing number of overweight children in many developing nations is a major problem which is always open for a debate. This is a topical question nowadays. Regarding this issue, some people think that problem is due to rise of the number of fast food centres while others point out that parents are responsible for lacking care on children's health. I strongly opine that food habits are completely transformed which need to be rectified immediately.
	On one hand, different types of foreign dishes are spread throughout the world. As children are more interested in these foods, they choose them without knowing cons about them. Consequently, a developing country cannot deny the entry of foreign trades which affects economic condition of a nation. The ingredients used to prepare an item in the fast food outlets are of low quality but rich in fat contents and other elements which  affect a child's health. Factors behind increasing demands of fast food centres include - low cost, instant availability, and finally, their distance from workplaces and our home. Fast food shops are located in every corner of the streets and people are being attracted by the variety of different tasty yet detrimental foods.
	On the other hand, parents are more blamed due to this problem. There are many factors relevant to this. In this challenging world, both parents are willing to have a job to adopt posh lifestyle and also to show their status. Consequently, their vision on the child's food habit plunged to the low level and thus results in unhealthy food habits. Other reasons like hormonal imbalance or gene transfer from parents to children result in obesity. In this urban life, families prefer to late parties, restaurant foods etc. These new interests devastated healthy food habits.
	Finally, in short consumption of fast foods should be reduced gradually simultaneously parents ought to pay more concentration on children habits and also force them to do exercises which keep body it.
	(Approximately 300 words)
	All around the world, the living standards are becoming higher and all more similar to western society. This changing in the everyday life brings also its contradictions and drawbacks, like the dramatic increasing in the number of overweight people. This problem is even more worrying if we consider the number of overweight children, which causes will be treated in this essay.
	One of the reasons lots of people think is the cause of such a problem is the exponentially growing number of fast food outlets in developed countries. Fast foods originally were places where to eat a meal in few times, but now have become also the easiest and cheapest solution to have lunch all over the world. Consequently millions of families prefer to eat in fast foods where the food is appealing, thanks to the huge work on advertisements, and the cost is reasonable. Therefore, parents bring their children to the fast food outlets, where food isn't organic at all and the dimensions of a meal are completely over-proportioned.
	However, parents are responsible for their children's diet and have to look after them in order to avoid they become overweight or even obese. Parents have to find time to prepare healthy food for children, for example, fresh vegetables or meat, that don't require more than half an hour of cooking. Moreover, parents have to free their children's diet from sweets, exchanging them with fresh fruit.
	In conclusion, both fast foods and lack of parental control are causes of the increasing number of overweight children. Consequently, a change in familiar eating habits and in fast food outlets menus could prevent the risk of a future worldwide spread obesity problem.
	(Approximately 280 words)
	In term of fast food counter, it should not be solely pointed as the contribution factor toward this matter. The increment of cow milk consumption in toddlers, in a change for breastfeeding milk, is also in charge guilty. Research conducted on this had proven that obesity is common among baby who were given cow milk instead of being breastfed.  Fast food, on the other hand, contains high fats and unsaturated fatty acids, which are hazardous for wellbeing not only for children but also for grown up people. Whereas, parents' lack of attention to their children's eating habits must be taken seriously as well. They must be acknowledged the importance of introducing nutritious meals to children. Children under five years of age, for instance, is best given high protein contains food, which accounts for brain development and boosting their cognitive ability. And as for obesity, one must be alerted on its impact on children's health status for it had been recognised as one of the major factors resulting in cardiovascular disease, diabetes and stroke.
	In conclusion to this essay, parents' knowledge in a healthy lifestyle and early introduction of a healthy lifestyle to the children must be given more emphasis to help anticipate the increase numbers of overweight young people. In addition, a government along with the society must also hold full responsibility for the children's wellbeing in general. It might be a good idea to create a policy controlling fast food outlets opening in many cities.
	(Approximately 270 words)
Essay 1761:
	It is true that the problems of obesity children in advance countries have grown rapidly in the past recent years. A group of people believe that it is due to the increasing number of fast food restaurants in the areas, while another group thinks that it is due to the parents’ mistakes, as they have given fewer attentions to the children these days. Although the growing numbers of fast food outlets do affect the problem, but I also agree that the lack attentions of the parents also give significant impact on the obesity cases.
	On the one hand, it is undeniable that the significant growths of fast food outlets have truly affected the case of overweight problem in children. In most public places such as in theme parks or shopping malls, fast food outlets restaurant definitely exist, and they offer various kinds of things which attract the children. For instance, Mc Donald regularly gives additional bonus such as toys for the children’s meal package. As more and more children are attracted to visit the fast food outlets, the existence of the outlets have grown rapidly nowadays and they have outnumbered the healthy ones. As a consequence of the increasing trend, the children have more option of outlets that they can select, and the probabilities of the children in consuming the foods are getting higher.
	On the other hand, I do believe that parents are also responsible for the problem as well. In the modern days, the roles of wives have changed, as most of them have become career women these days. Since they are focused on their careers, they have less time in doing the household activities, which include preparing meals for their children. Instead of cooking healthy foods, they prefer to give meal allowance to their children, which is more practical and efficient. As a result, many of the children purchased their meal in fast food restaurants, and they have become overweight.
	In conclusion, although the increasing populations of fast food restaurants have given some contribution to the problem of overweight children, I do believe that the lack attentions of parents also play a significant role as well.
Essay 1762:
	It is true that there is a growing trend in obesity children in industrialised nations in recent years. While this issue is being pointed at the widespread fast food restaurants, I would argue that parents should take full responsible for growing a healthy child.
	To begin with, the expanding of convenient food stores may not be the cause of overweight children. Although some of the foods served in these restaurants may contain high saturated fat items, there are other factors that could also result in gaining weight as well. Firstly, if children consume an excessive amount of unhealthy snacks, sugary soda drinks, or prepackaged foods, they could also become obsessed. Secondly, even if the family did visit the fast food outlets for meals, parents could still substitute unhealthy items with a healthier menu, such as having French fries replaced with vegetables or salad.
	In addition, parents certainly play a vital role in providing a healthy diet for their children. With the invention of the Internet, it is possible to obtain information of food ingredients, daily nutrient proportion needed in each food category and healthy recipes within minutes. Therefore, learning about how to prepare nutrient meals have never been easier. I believe supplying healthy snacks for children during school days and preparing a healthy balanced meal in the evening in routine could lead to a healthy body.
	However, we must not be forgotten that ensuring children to have an adequate amount of physical exercise is also a critical contributor to their good health.
	In conclusion, I believe that parents should be the ones who play a crucial role in upbringing their children in a healthy environment.
	(Approximately 275 words)
	(Written by Stacey.)
Essay 1763:
	In today's world, fast food is one of the main problems of all countries. Fast food causes many health problems including the overweight issue. The proportion of eating fast food among young people is growing year by year and this is why the overweight issue is getting worse over time.
	It is believed that increasing the number of fast food outlets such as McDonalds is creating the health problem. As these cafes and fast food outlets are convenient and near to our home or workplace, they have become part of our life in spite of their harmfulness. Children who eat from those fast food shops do not know what is good and what is bad for their health. Nowadays even parents are consuming these foods even after knowing they are not beneficial for our health. This problem does not only create the overweight, besides this, it can cause heart attack and other health problems.
	'Busy parents cannot to take care of their children and can’t maintain a balanced diet for them.' -  is a common statement by the working class parents. Due to their lack of time and knowledge, children eat more and more fast food without any parental control and become fattier. Moreover, parents are grown-up enough to know what is healthy and what is unhealthy for their kids. That is why parents should help their children to make a right decision of eating food. Some people think that parents can always go to restaurants where hygienic dishes are served.
	As far as I am concerned, parents are more blameworthy than fast food outlets. Parents want to do their best and make their children’s lives more colourful and sound. And they should not work all day, and it would be better if parents can arrange more time for their kids. Also in my opinion parents should cook delicious foods at home, teach their kids about balance diet, ask them to avoid harmful foods and inspire them to do some exercise.
	(Approximately 330 words)
	(Written by Sherzod Djuraev.)
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/280-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-54-children-should-be-required-to-help-with-household-tasks",
Essay 1764:
	The issue about whether children should help with household tasks as soon as they are able to do so is open for debate. Some people say that children should devote more time for playing with their friends, watching TV and studying. However, other people believe that children should help their parents with household tasks. Personally, for several reasons, which I will explain bellow, I adhere to the latter point of view.
	First of all, I think that every child should have his or her own responsibilities. When I was a child my parents taught me how to make breakfast in the morning. So, I woke up, went to the kitchen and prepared a couple of toasts for breakfast. It was easy and I enjoyed doing it because I liked the way my parents thanked me and I felt that they were proud of me. Also, my mom always wanted me to know how to cook, clean and iron my cloth. Thanks to the learning, nowadays, when my maid can not come to my house I handle all household tasks myself.
	Second of all, performing household tasks teaches children to value the job of people who did it. When I was a child I did not imagine that cleaning house could be so time and energy consuming. So, when I began to do some of the household tasks by myself I began to respect the job of others and tried to collect all my toys after my playing with them.
	Finally, doing household tasks teaches children to arrange their time. In addition to those practical benefits, help from children allows parents to have more spare time for their personal lives and for the children. A family can have more time to spend with each other talking, watching movies or just enjoying the beautiful moments.
	To sum up, I think that children should help their parents with household tasks. Doing household tasks helps them to grow into independent, self-confident, and attentive persons who respect their parents.
Essay 1765:
	As time goes by, parents have less and less time to spend at home with their children because of their working pressure & schedules. Lots of people think that it should be better to teach their children to do house works, so they could do household tasks more rapidly and especially together and can prepare for the upcoming days. I think that is right to teach children to do house works and I will discuss this topic in the next paragraphs.
	The reason why children should learn how to do household tasks is that it will become extremely useful to them in the future. In fact, learning to do the house works will prepare children to adult life. Furthermore, the fact that children can contribute to household tasks is a concrete help for their parents and a reason of pride.
	Parents should firstly teach to their children to complete easy tasks such as removing dust or washing their toys. Secondly, children could give some help with gardening or take care of pets, which are tasks that require interest and more attention. Finally, young boys and girls could use the hoover or the dishwasher. The most important aspect of teaching how to do house works is to make them easy-to-do and even amusing if possible.
	To conclude, people who don't believe that their children are able to do household tasks are completely wrong and have to change their mind even if they hadn't been required to do house works when they were children too.
Essay 1766:
	Learning and education is an important part of a child’s life. Children learn a lot from their surroundings. The parents are the first guides and mentors of their children.
	Involving the children in household tasks is a vital part of their learning. When the kids are old enough to be able to help in such tasks, they should be made to do so. Children can be asked to help their mother in cooking, cleaning the house, organising their wardrobes, setting the dining table for lunch and dinner, putting the things in order at home. These are small tasks, but in doing so, the children learn a lot.
	These small chores inculcate a feeling of responsibility in children. For example, my two-year-old is always instructed to put her toys back in the bucket whenever she is done playing. Now, she does not need to be told that either, because she knows that it’s her responsibility to put her things back in order when she is done with them. This sense of responsibility also makes a child more confident. The child also learns to help people around. It develops a caring attitude towards other people. It also helps children to develop a habit of doing things together with their peers. The child gets disciplined when he is used to organising his room and wardrobe.
	In short, in order to make the children a useful part of a community, we should involve them in such activities. This will not only groom their personalities but also set an example for others to follow.
Essay 1767:
	Since the dawn of time children helped to do home tasks, but nowadays this situation has been changed and all housework are done by elders. People believe that children must help to do housework, due to the responsibility that they might earn and school themselves to work in a group. I totally agree with the rubric above and it will be proven in the following essay.
	Firstly, house works aren't purposed only for one person, it should be divided. For instance, if a mom would wash clothes, a daughter should run the vacuum cleaner, while the son throws away garbage. In this case, people in a family will learn how to work in a group and realise if they will do housework together it would be much easier than doing it alone. It's obvious from my example that as more people involve in cleaning of the house as faster it would be done.
	Another advantage of "little helpers" is that, by giving them tasks you accidentally teaching them to responsibility. For example, if children help in household works, they will use to do tasks in time and in the near future it'll be a huge advantage for them. Because, in today's life punctual people are more reliable and accepted in high positions, it is always a good idea to grow up children in this fashion.
	In conclusion, in my view, even if our society is changing the behaviour of the young generation, we have to teach them to help us in household works and by doing those, they actually will learn what is the responsibility and how difficult to be in charge of something.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/279-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-53-would-you-prefer-to-live-in-a-traditional-house-or-in-a-modern-apartment-building",
Essay 1768:
	If I was asked where I would I prefer to live in a traditional house or in a modern apartment building, I think, I would hesitate to answer. This question, from my point of view, is a controversial one. In the following paragraphs, I will analyse both these options and present my view.
	From the one side, living in a modern apartment building brings many benefits. First of all, it is cheaper than living in a traditional house and paying different kinds of fees I am not familiar with. For instance, my friend, who recently bought a new house for his family, said me that it is much easier to live in an apartment and I tend to believe him when I see his bills. So, living in an apartment will definitely help me to save some money. Second of all, since I live alone I do not need a big house with many rooms. I just need a bedroom and a living room where I can take my guests and have my workplace. Another important benefit of living in an apartment is that I will not have to buy much cumbersome furniture in order to furnish all rooms.
	However, living in a modern apartment building can have a few disadvantages too. Firstly, it can be noisy and, secondly, I will not have any privacy outside my apartment, for example, in a pool or gym.
	From the other side, living in a traditional house has some advantages too. For example, I can have my own pool, gym and a garden where I can relax and be alone. However, living in a house is usually more expensive and requires more time to maintain a house. For instance, I will most likely have to hire someone to mow my lawn and clean my pool not to mention all household tasks inside the house.
	In conclusion, I think at this moment I would prefer to live in an apartment. It can help me save some money and allows me to spend more time studying because I will not have to do many household tasks.
Essay 1769:
	Times have changed and so has the way people live. Due to changes in lifestyle and advancement in technologies, people have started leaving many of their traditions. Some people still prefer to live in a traditional house, others, however, are attracted towards modern houses. I would love to live in a modern apartment, for several reasons that I will mention below.
	On the one hand, those who prefer living in the traditional houses are the one who faces lots of issues with routine living. One of the great disadvantages of the traditional house is that it is impossible to use our favourite electronic goods. So these people lose the chances to get interaction with the latest technologies. The maintenance costs of these houses are comparatively very high.
	On the other hand, modern apartment offers security in different forms. So the robbers cannot break in easily. This is the exact place where people can enjoy most of the latest technologies. Apartment life teaches us good manners, scheduled work and cleanliness in a better way. Also, we can get exposure to a lot of people from different communities. For example, a friend of mine who shifted from a traditional house and now living in an apartment got the opportunity to mix with people from different states and also over time she became good with technologies.
	To conclude, the strong current of technological advancement has indeed eroded some traditions of our nation, which includes traditional houses. Nevertheless, both of them are mutually incompatible. The only way we can preserve our tradition which reflects our origin and roots by modern apartments, which should be built in the form of our traditional houses.
Essay 1770:
	In big cities variety of houses are available and every living place has some pros and cons. I would like to get a detached house which is more traditional than a modern apartment. In my opinion to live in a typical house is comfortable, spacious and independent. Multistoried flats are congested and have compromised space.
	Home is the place where a man relaxes. If someone owns a house according to his wishes and needs then he can enjoy his life with friends and family. Independent houses are separate buildings with least contact with the neighbourhood. These houses are having a more covered area, garage, small compounds, backyards and rooms for guests.  While living in these houses one can manage to park two to four vehicles in building and cars are more protected when they are under the roof. Ultraviolet light is blessing from nature and it kills bacteria, vanishes the smell from rooms and it is in excess in these houses. A man can enjoy gardening in backyards and front lawn and multi coloured flowers add the charm in a house.
	In conclusion, I will choose a routine house for living. Traditional houses are having more space and are friendly for domestic activities. I will enjoy exercise, weather, and flowers in day life and take deep and comfortable sleep while at night.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/278-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-52-some-people-enjoy-change-and-they-look-forward-to-new-experiences",
Essay 1771:
	Some people like to live in the same house, have the same job and habit all their lives. However, others aspire to changes and new experience. Personally, for the several reasons, which I will explain bellow, I prefer the first approach to life.
	First of all, changes in one's life bring many benefits. One tries new things, gains new knowledge and experience. I think it is great because without changes life becomes boring. I always try to make changes in my life. Moreover, when I feel that my life is boring I do not feel well about it. I feel like I spent those days for nothing. I did not do anything exciting, I learnt nothing interesting and I just wasted my time.
	Second of all, people need changes. Furthermore, we need obstacles to overcome and reach our goals. I believe that changes make us stronger, more persistent, more self-confident, and more patient. Also, I feel that all people who succeeded in life like changes and new experience because it is impossible to be the best at some field without perfecting the present knowledge and gain new experience. People catch every opportunity to learn more and change their life for the best.
	From the other side, people who like their lives to stay the same are very permanent. They have the same job all their life, the same habits, the same weekends and even the same years in years out. I think it is boring. What will they tell their children about their lives? What kind of contribution will they make for the society? I think such people are just afraid of changes.
Essay 1772:
	Some People are adventurous so they prefer to grab new opportunities, while others like to stay with their past but my inclination is towards the former group. In this essay, I am going to discuss the both ways of life and then give my own opinion on the matter.
	On the one hand, there are some merits and demerits for people who like to stay with their ancestral attitudes or status. The most vital points which can be cited first regarding this is that they do not want to leave their safe and secure places by any chance. Though like is boring sometimes but they find their happiness in the secure and familiar places. These types of peoples do not want to explore other planets like Mars, Venus or Neptune ; this way of living is not helpful for any positive advancement of society.
	On the other hand, there are some peoples who are adventurous and they try to embrace something new. Firstly they believe that life is like a journey so you need to adapt yourselves to the changes. Otherwise, you will be in a backward period and you have to stay alone in a society. These categorised peoples are helpful for new inventions and also cause of the advancement of society. For instance, our ancient people had left their tomb and embark new way of life as a result, they invented fire and other amenities of ancient life.
	In my opinion, I enjoy the approaches how life is becoming new with new inventions or experienced new opportunities. I believe, if I get together with my old habits, it will give me tranquillity of life. But after sometimes it makes me bored and inactive. So I am very eager to experience new places and new cultures. By the way, I can feel myself and enjoy my times with the new opportunities.
Essay 1773:
	"The only thing that doesn't change in life, is the change itself," a famous quote by an anonymous. It presents a notion that life contains dynamic values. The whole universe continues growth till this second. Thus changing is part of intrinsic life's property.
	Humans are ageing constantly and another possession that every single man must deal with. Physical ought to follow life circle that constantly changing over time. There is no actual steady mode existed in the materialistic world. And the same goes to psychological activities. Man need to grow in order to gain a better stage in life. We need to indulge in an everlasting study to gain maturity. Knowledge which can be sought from informal media is a thing one must always occupy throughout their life. Without the urge to be in continuous development, humans might literally death. Climate changing, to name a few, is the environmental changing which alters the way we live. We are forced to adapt fast to the situation and carried out some anticipation. We need to stop cutting down forest brutally, stop exploiting our natural resources, must take care our sewage carefully, etc.; in order to inhibit the progression from getting worse.
	In another word, changing is a natural pattern that we need to engage with an open heart. Even dramatic changes in life must be seen with different angles to grasp the value beneath it. When we almost sink down by the lack of fossil fuels, for instance, it had successfully delivered us the birth of bio-fossil that might do wonder for the coming existence of earth itself. When we restrict ourselves from following the trend and get along with the changing, for better or worse, we might beat down by our own reluctance and might wake up knowing that we are isolated in our own autistic world.
Essay 1774:
	Some people love changes and doing new things whereas the others are keen on to have steady life, and they would not like to have new habits. As for me, I am fond of trying new things, I am an open-minded person and social in nature.
	Many people do not like changes because many of them are closed-minded and antisocial. To come up with modern life, like Technology or to try new things is tough for them. For instance, one of my friends, his name is Mehmet, is a closed-minded. He played a game name is FM, but he was playing the oldest version of the game. when I said that ''are you still enjoying playing this version! I think, you should update it.'', he replied that '' I like doing the same thing. I hate changing anything in my life even if it is just a game.'' , but I was determined to convince him to try the latest version of the game. As a result, I managed it. He tried and said that ''you are right, it is more enjoyable than the older one.''
	However, some people are courageous to change their life. They are not afraid of trying something which they have not tried before. For example, I had been doing buddy building in my University years. I was bored to do it. Therefore, I decided to switch my sports habit. Hence, I embarked on swimming. After a while, I found out that the decision was right, and useful for me. If I did not change my sports habit. I would give up doing sport completely.
	In conclusion, life is changing constantly in this modern world. You should come up with these changes ıf you would like to be a successful person in your life . Furthermore, you should not forget that some new things maybe useful for you. In addition, it is probably that you can enjoy doing them.
Essay 1775:
	Different people have different lifestyle according to their own preferences and values. Some prefer to have similar life patterns to feel stability and comfort, whereas others look for changes to entertain and enhance their lives. Personally, I enjoy changes and always look forward to new experiences. This is because people learn new things by experiencing changes, and it helps people to adjust to the changing society.
	To begin with, by experiencing changes, people can learn new knowledge and information. Changes in life can be starting a new job, learning a new skill or transferring to different schools. Even though these changes will be unfamiliar and difficult at first, during the process of adjusting to the change, individuals will be able to upgrade their abilities, pick up a new skill and widen their horizons. For example, last year, I decided to go to the U.S. to study abroad. In the beginning, it was hard getting used to my new school and studying different subjects since the academic curriculum was so different to my home country’s, Korea, system. However, as time went by, I was able to enhance my English speaking skills and learn more about American culture and history. This change of studying abroad definitely helped me to widen my perspectives and explore a different country. Thus, changes can help individuals to broaden their horizons.
	Furthermore, people must change in order to fit in with today’s society which is changing and developing every day. Nowadays, due to scientific development and discoveries, new technologies and mechanical devices are changing the style of how people live their lives. So people need to change and adapt themselves to the new technologies so that they do not get left behind. To be specific, nobody writes their paper or report by hand these days, they use the computer and type in the words instead so that they can finish their work faster and make it more qualified. If people do not change and use the original method of completing their work by hand, they will not be able to catch up with the quality and speed of people who utilise new methods. Thus, people must change so that they can adapt to the changing society.
	In conclusion, through changes, people can learn new things and fit in with the developing society. In this regard, people should enjoy having changes in their lives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/277-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-51-according-to-those-in-the-travel-business-the-nature-of-the-average-holiday-is-changing",
Essay 1776:
	Holidays are important because they provide a break from our normal daily routine and from the world of work. Traditionally, holidays have been seen as a time for relaxation and as an opportunity to visit another country in order to find out about its geography and customs. Nowadays, however, it seems that other types of holiday are becoming popular.
	Some people want their holidays to be adventurous and find this more exciting than going to the beach or visiting museums. On an adventure holiday, you may stay in quite basic accommodation, rather than a luxurious hotel. Activities may involve things such as bush walking or cycling, or may form part of an aid project designed to help communities in remote areas. Holidays such as these are popular with people of all ages and can often help to promote tourism in rural environments.
	The increasing popularity of dangerous sports has also boosted the number of adventure holidays; for example, water sports, mountain climbing or paragliding. These holidays are more popular with the younger generation, as they can be both physically and mentally demanding. Participants are often seeking the sort of thrills that they cannot get in ordinary life.
	There is now greater awareness of the damaging effects of mass tourism and this may be one reason for the changing nature of holidays. This can only be a good thing. But perhaps people are also discovering that it is just as refreshing to take an active holiday, as it is to lie on a beach - though that is still a question of personal preference.
	Nowadays, people live very hectic lives. They want to break the monotonousness of life. By means of holidays, they get temporary escape from the routine and busy life. Thus, holidays play an important role in everyone`s life. According to those who are in travel business, nature of the holiday is changing. I completely agree with it.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/276-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-50-what-are-some-important-qualities-of-a-good-supervisor",
Essay 1777:
	It is a fact that a good supervisor should have some competencies and skills. The following essay will discuss the qualities that a supervisor should have in details.
	Firstly, a good supervisor should lead by examples. As a leader, his way and style of working will be viewed by his staff, therefore he should lead his team by giving good examples. For instance, when a supervisor wants his team to have good absence records, he should never come late as well. He should become the role model for his teams by coming on time and work with discipline attitude. This example will motivate his team to come early in the morning.
	Secondly, a good supervisor should have the capability in managing his team. As a supervisor, he should not be objective in judging his staffs, but he should treat his team professionally. For examples, when a supervisor needs to prepare an absence schedule, he should make the timeline fairly for all his teams. He should not make any time schedule which is unfair and would only be beneficial for certain people.
	Thirdly, a good leader will also pay attention to his team. He will help and assist his staffs who face difficulties at work. For example, some staffs may be facing difficulties with their new computer programs, and it is the supervisor's task to give some training and coaching to them until they understand the new system.
	In conclusion, a good supervisor should have some important qualifications in his work, such as lead by example, have a good management skill and would assist his team.
Essay 1778:
	The job of a supervisor requires a lot of preparation and the strong attitude in caring about the quality of work. The most relevant qualities of a supervisor will be analysed in the following paragraphs, supported by specific details and examples.
	Firstly, one of the most important characteristics of a supervisor is the perfect comprehension of the nature and dynamics of the work he has to manage with. Furthermore, the supervisor is a manager who leads the work of a group of people, so he has to be comprehensive on errors and at the same time, he has not to lose the control over his subordinates, letting them do unrepairable mistakes. That's a really challenging task that I'm experiencing this current year like responsible of a group of research which represents the University of Padova in a European competition called Solar Decathlon.
	Another fundamental quality that makes a good supervisor is the capacity of judging equally all the subordinates' works, instead of being preferential towards the ones which respect more his ideas. The quality also includes his/her focus to the deadline and attaining excellence in the team. Supervising a group of people with a strict rule is not always possible and more leadership qualities, in this case, are essential. Being able to keep balance in the team and observing the progress while learning from the past mistakes three other qualities each good supervisor should have.
	In conclusion, a supervisor has to be perfectly acknowledged on the tasks he's working with and he has to be a leader strict but right at the eyes of his subordinates.
Essay 1779:
	Many people have to work under somebody's supervision. In most of the cases, an employee does not choose his or her boss, unless a supervisor is elected. In the following paragraphs, I will list the most important qualities of my "ideal boss".
	First of all, he must be impartial. I believe that it is very important to make a technical decision, think about somebody's promotion, etc. impartially. For instance, my friend is a supervisor on a dairy farm. It is his family's business so a lot of his relatives work there. But he never promotes someone because he or she is his family. I think it is a good quality for a boss.
	Second, my "ideal boss" must be honest, patient and attentive. He should pay attention to people's feelings, encourage them by increasing their salary, listen to their suggestions about improving labour conditions and productivity. For instance, if he is not satisfied with the result, he should understand the origin of the problem and should explain to people how to fix it. In addition, he must know how to solve conflicts that can arise between employees. Another important quality of a boss is the ability to choose the right decisions and to learn from somebody's mistakes.
	Finally, I think a good boss must value his or her employees because the profit directly depends on the people who work there. Only a selfish superior would value his/her own opinion and won’t value about what others are thinking. A good supervisor will listen to other workers and would encourage to work hard for the betterment of the organisation.
	In conclusion, I think a good boss should be able to make his people enjoy the work they are doing and encourage their diligence.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/275-young-people-are-encouraged-to-work-or-travel-for-a-year",
Essay 1780:
	It is quite common these days for young people in many countries to have a break from studying after graduating from high school. This trend is not restricted to rich students who have the money to travel but is also evident among poorer students who choose to work and become economically independent for a period of time.
	The reasons for this trend may involve the recognition that a young adult who passes directly from school to university is rather restricted in terms of general knowledge and experience of the world. By contrast, those who have spent some time earning a living or travelling to other places have a broader view of life and better personal resources to draw on. They tend to be more independent, which is a very important factor in academic study and research, as well as giving them an advantage in terms of coping with the challenges of student life.
	However, there are certainly dangers in taking time off at that important age. Young adults may end up never returning to their studies or finding it difficult to re-adapt to an academic environment. They may think that it is better to continue in a particular job or to do something completely different from a university course. But overall, I think this is less likely today when academic qualifications are essential for getting a reasonable career.
	My view is that young people should be encouraged to broaden their horizons. That is the best way for them to get a clear perspective of what they are hoping to do with their lives and why. Students with such a perspective are usually the most effective and motivated ones and taking a year off may be the best way to gain this.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/274-what-is-one-thing-you-will-do-to-improve-your-community",
Essay 1781:
	In conclusion, social gaps can only be abridged by education. Hence, I will spend my free times to educate children in my beloved community.
Essay 1782:
	Unfortunately, the question is what I can do for my community giving a few hours of my time every month. I think I can not do much, but I still can help someone in my community. For example, I can babysit. I know a couple of families with little children, who can not afford to spend much money on the babysitter. One of these families is a single mom with a little girl. Julia, this is her name, is a waitress in a restaurant. She is a great person and we became close friends. So, sometimes I offer her help with her child when she has to work in the evenings. Another family has two funny little twins. One time their parents asked me to babysit their children because they had to attend an unexpected presentation.
	To conclude, I believe that the babysitting is a great way to help my community in many aspects.
Essay 1783:
	Historically humans have dwelled in a community which sets them apart from the other species on earth. Communities have existed in different forms and can be the epicentre for any grown civilisation. Any community is made up of individuals who contribute towards the growth and well-being of the overall community.  Since I am an integral part of my community, I equally share the ownership and duty towards my community. I have decided to spend few hours every month to contribute towards building up fitness facility in my community.
	Another reason to set up fitness equipment in the community is the affordability. Not every family can afford the Gyms and fitness centres. Since these commercial fitness centres charge a lot of fees, fitness at times is perceived as a luxury commodity, thus depriving the people of the best of the class equipment. But, in this world of technology, world-class equipment with the best design are available at low prices too. To give an example, Singapore government has deployed fitness equipment at every 100 meters for their Housing Development Board Units. Thus, the success of Singapore can be repeated in my society.
	To conclude, I consider fitness as a daily need and not a once in a blue moon activity. Having fitness in a community is the best way to push ourselves to the treadmill every day. I recommend having fitness in the community to enjoy the benefits of a healthy body.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/273-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-47-companies-should-encourage-employees-who-work-in-a-high-position-to-leave-at-the-age-of-55",
Essay 1784:
	In English, there is a saying, “You can’t teach an old dog new tricks.” In the fast-paced world of business, bolstered by even faster hi-tech innovations, a younger more pliant mind would seem to be able to adapt with greater flexibility, while such an environment might boggle an older more set-in-its-ways mind. Take, for example, Microsoft’s Bill Gates, whose energy and brilliant insights as a youth helped him to pioneer new territory in the computer software world and establish a digital empire. Now as a more mature CEO, this king of the “computer” mountain is constantly on the verge of being knocked down by upcoming digerati entrepreneurs. However, it is now the experience he has accumulated as an older man which keeps him on top. So, combining the vigour and innovation of younger workers with the experience of older workers would seem to be the winning hand in the world of business.
	The assertion is to give opportunities to the younger generation. If everyone retires at 55, there will be a smaller pool of experience at the company. So, who will show them the ropes of the trade? It would be as if we lopped off the last few chapters of a textbook. On this point, the argument would seem to be built on false presumptions.
	And think of all the other problems retirement at 55 would create. With life expectancy in many advanced nations at 70-plus years, how would the state along with private enterprises be able to support their retirement pensions? The economic repercussions of such an idea could be great.
	Besides, the Western form of capitalism is built on competition and merit and not seniority according to age, and democracy is built on equality for all regardless of one’s age, so the argument clearly goes against these two pillars of Western society.
	Granted, my counter-arguments are perhaps as simplistic as the original assertion itself, but without qualifying the assertion with greater supporting evidence or background information, both sides can be argued. Nevertheless, even after thoroughly considering the argument, I believe I would still adhere to my viewpoint that the assertion lacks merit for the aforementioned reasons. Besides, when I am 55 I do not fancy the idea of being put out to pasture. I think I will still be full of vitality and have a desire to work, so I hope my workplace will view me as a treasure house of valuable experience to pass along to the next generation and keep me on until I am at least 65 if not older.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/272-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-46-international-tourism-creates-tension-rather-than-understanding-between-people-from-different-cultures",
Essay 1785:
	Today the world is more connected than any time before and people from all over the countries can arrive at their destination within 24 hours. However, while this possibility permits to millions of individuals to encounter different cultures every year, the phenomenon of the international tourism brings also conflicts between people with different habits and costumes.
	To begin, tourism creates isolation more than integration. In fact, tourists prefer to look at different places, costumes and habits like sitting in front of the television screen, watching a documentary, more than sharing time with the indigenous population. Furthermore, tourists don't respect foreign habits and cultures, often because they don't understand it. For example, they throw the litter on the ground, or even worse they don't respect their hosts’ religion.
	Nevertheless, the effects of international tourism are not all negative. Sometimes tourists fall in love with people and places they visit and decide to live in there, acting as mediators between cultures and enhancing integration. It's the case of lots of tourist guides that decided to move abroad and enjoy a different lifestyle and culture, trying to share their feelings with visitors. Also speaking the language of the place we visit can help us understand people from different cultures.
	In addition, a large amount of money around the tourism business contrasts the tendency of some countries to close their border to foreign people. This can lead to a better comprehension of these cultures and so to integration.
	In conclusion, the biggest industry in the world have to feel the need of changes in the way tourism is structured, so it could become a mean of integration and reciprocal understanding more than create tensions between cultures.
Essay 1786:
	The growth of tourism and the numbers of people travelling to other countries for their vacations has led to debate as to whether this is beneficial. I believe that there are many problems which arise out of the tourist industry, and will examine these in detail.
	Many people argue that travel broadens the mind. However, this statement does not fully hold water. I would argue that spending a few weeks in another country is not long enough to gain a proper understanding of an alien culture. A foreigner visiting Britain might be met with the traditional British reserve, and mistakenly conclude that the British are unfriendly. Furthermore, some people are unwilling to open their minds. A Western traveller to an Arab country is unlikely to consider that the veiling of women is acceptable.
	Being a tourist in a foreign country brings with it problems that can lead to the dislike of the native people. Firstly, a foreigner is vulnerable and is often ripped off by locals. Secondly, the language barrier can lead to misunderstandings. Thirdly, tourists are often hassled to buy goods, which can ruin a holiday. When I went to Bali, people tried to sell me something every five minutes, and this totally spoils my sunbathing.
	Local people also often end up disliking foreigners. Visitors may mistakenly act contrary to local norms, or they may just be plain offensive, as many drunken British holidaymakers must seem to the Spanish. Global tourism can lead to hostility from the native people, who may feel their traditional way of life is under threat. Additionally, the relative wealth of the foreign visitors can cause envy and resentment.
	In conclusion, I would say that I largely agree with the argument that global tourism creates misunderstanding between people from different cultures and that the differences are often a cause for conflict rather than celebration.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/271-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-45-it-is-better-for-children-to-grow-up-in-the-countryside-than-in-a-big-city",
Essay 1787:
	Some people believe that it is better for children to grow up in the countryside than in a big city. However, other people think that a big city gives more opportunities and it is good for the long run. Personally, for several reasons I think that it is better for children to grow up in a city that offers numerous advantages.
	First of all, it is very important for a child to grow up in a healthy environment. Children need fresh air, not polluted by the huge amount of cars and factories of the modern city. In the country, they can spend more time exercising and walking with their friends. Scientists say that now children spend the same amount of time watching TV as they do at school. Probably, the possibility to join their friends for a play will change this proportion. Another important aspect of this is that parents will have more time to spend with their children as a result of eliminating traffic jams and decreasing driving time as a whole.
	From the other side, children have some advantages living in a big city. For example, they have more opportunities to choose from what they want to do. They can choose to attend ballet school, school of art, gymnastics, etc. For the long run, it is good for them. They will be better prepared for a life in a "real world" and they will have more chances to make a good career and succeed. Moreover, a big city usually has many entertaining centres with movie theatres and play stations. When I was a child I liked to go to the movie theatre with my parents to watch a premiere.
	One more reason to choose a big city for a child is that a city provides better live conditions and services such as medical, dental, etc. My friend lived in the country for a while and one time he and his family had to drive a couple of hours to the nearest medical centre when his child got a heavy cough.
	To summarise, I agree with those people who want to raise their children in a city. The plenty of opportunities offered by a city helps children to find what they really like and be the best at it. Moreover, despite the air pollution, children get a better medical service that is good for their health.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/270-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-44-children-should-never-be-educated-at-home-by-their-parents",
Essay 1788:
	Nobody can say with a full confidence whether children should be taught at home or at any children's institutions. There are many different children and everyone demand of education suitable only for him.
	But for most of the children, the best way of learning the life is being in the children's institutions. Nobody would argue that contacts between children of the same age are very important for bringing your child up. Such a contact is very important for playing, entertaining and learning to live with other people. The harmonious living with other people, to my mind, is the first task for any man. Lack of this harmony sets problems and troubles.
	The children need space to run and make noise, to jump and cry. Do you or your neighbours allow these actions for your child? If you live in town, it is difficult to find a safe place to play. Kindergartens give such a possibility. They give space, a lot of toys and constructions for physical exercises. So, if you have bad living conditions, the kindergarten is the best way for you. But if you have a large family with many children and enough space, you may keep your child at home. You should be sure that the child feels, dressed and comfortable. His brothers and sisters give him necessary contacts. It's noticed long ago that children in big families are much more easy-tempered and calm. They are located in the more harmonic world than others.
	Sometimes differences in age put troubles in contacts between children in large families. Then it is better for the children to be sent to the kindergarten (school). But if quarrels don't last for a long time, everything is all right. In general, quarrels develop an ability to cooperate with people. They develop a personal initiative and force setting the balance. In such a way the child gets lessons of life. Oddly, the quarrels often take place in kindergartens and schools and we shouldn't fear it.
	Side by side with quarrels parents often are afraid of colds which happen in kindergartens more frequently. Parents prefer keeping the child at home. But for a healthy child odd cold (if illness occurs, it goes its normal course) can't make big harm to the child. And if the child is adaptable to the conditions of public places earlier it would be better for him in future.
	In general, I am a follower of the theory of keeping children in adapted places such as good kindergartens. But keeping children in such a place can't replace family and home. Only together they make the harmonic and beautiful union.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/269-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-43-modern-technology-is-creating-a-single-world-culture",
Essay 1789:
	Man, through the ages, has undergone many changes from the time when he depicted a herd of mammoths on the walls of the cave to these days when he can chat with someone on the other side of the globe. Modern technology is rapidly changing the world's living standards that result in creating a single world culture. New technologies including Internet, television, electronic media, means of transportation, etc has a great impact on creating a similar culture all around the globe. Bellow I will list my reasons to support my opinion.
	First of all, Internet and e-mail have changed the way people communicate with each other. The Internet brought many benefits. It is a new means of communication, a fast access to information and news. People communicate with each other, share their ideas, happiness and difficulties. We have a great opportunity to find out more about countries and their history.
	Second, the modern means of transportation allows people to move from one place to another very quickly. A few centuries ago it was impossible to imagine waking up in one country and falling asleep in another.
	Finally, as a result of all mentioned above the boundaries between countries, their traditions and customs are erased. Many people migrate during their lives. Some of them are looking for a better place to live, others want to get new experience and knowledge or just pleasure. So, many families are created between people from different countries. Traditions fuse and evolve into other ones or just vanish.
	To sum up, modern technology has a great impact on the way people live now. It is creating a new single world culture where traditions and distances are no longer of that importance.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/268-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-42-computers-have-made-life-easier-and-more-convenient",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/267-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-41-by-punishing-murderers-with-the-death-penalty-society-is-also-guilt-of-committing-murder",
Essay 1790:
	In today's society, life is very violent and if we read the newspapers and watch the news on TV, we find lots of murders and other crime news almost daily. There are many mentally ill people who are committing crimes and almost nothing will stop them. These types of psychopathic murders commit murders even sometimes for personal pleasure. We have interviewed captured criminals who say, "I was going to kill him, but I knew that I could get the death penalty if I did. So I just left him there." Obviously, having the death penalty saves lives and that makes a positive difference to society. The death penalty is also useful to send the message to rest of the people that no matter who you are if you commit a murder you are going to be hanged till death or going to sit in an electric chair. This fear is helpful to reduce the homicide in many countries. If a criminal murders someone and then gets the death penalty, that isn't society's fault. Everyone knows about the death penalty as a punishment for murder. So, the person who murders is really killing himself at the same time he is killing his victim. The murderer has made the choice to die. It is important to remember that the death penalty is used only for people who have committed very serious crimes. For example, a woman shot a police officer when she was trying to escape from jail. She was already a convicted criminal when she committed murder, and she deserves the death penalty.
	In many countries, crimes become so severe that the law enforcers can't control the situation and capital punishment becomes a part of the law practice but there are many cases where a man/woman kills another one to protect him or herself. It's not uncommon when a girl kills a rapist to save her dignity and before pronouncing the death penalty the reason must be considered. Even if a single innocent person gets the death penalty that will make the judicial system questionable.    
	People need to accept responsibility for their actions. Punishing murderers with the death penalty is one way that society can help people to realise the consequences of their decisions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/266-successful-sports-professionals-earn-great-deal-more-money",
Essay 1791:
	As a result of constant media attention, sports professionals in my country have become celebrities, and those at the top are paid huge salaries. Just like movie stars, they live extravagant lifestyles with huge houses and cars. Many people find their rewards unfair, especially when comparing their salaries with those of top surgeons or research scientists or even leading politicians who have the responsibility of governing the country. However, sports professionals' salaries are not determined by considering the contribution to society a person makes, or the level of responsibility he or she holds. Instead, they reflect the public popularity of the sport in general and the level of public support that successful stars can generate. So the notion of ‘fairness’ is not the issue here.
	Those who feel that sports stars’ salaries are justified might argue that the numbers of professionals with real talent are very few, and the money is recognition of the skills and dedication a person needs to be successful. Competition is constant and a player is tested every time they perform in their relatively short career. The pressure from the media is intense and there is little privacy out of the spotlight. There is a huge number of sports persons compared to those who have become successful and having a huge salary. It takes lots of practice, skills and time to become a sports icon. Again Sports personality like Sachin Tendulkar, Tiger Woods, Shane Warne inspires the new generation to be attracted to the games they play.  So all of these factors may justify the huge earnings of the sports personality.
	The first reason why I think that such high salary is deserved by famous athletes and entertainers because we all need them. Entertainment plays an essential role in our everyday's life. We need to relax, watching TV with our favourite TV stars or favourite football players. Entertainment is one of the best ways to eliminate stress and tension and leave all troubles behind. For example, I can not stay home all day long without watching TV. So, basically, I believe that famous athletes and entertainers have such high salaries because we need them. They like doctors for our minds and soles. Scientists say that people usually spend the same amount of money for their food and entertainment. I think this fact tells a lot.
	The second reason for this is that famous athletes have to work hard in order to get good results. I am sure that achievements they make are the result of hard work, persistence and pain. They sometimes risk their lives and health. For example, I am a big fan of L. Amstrong, the most famous cyclist in world's history. He faced probably, the most challenging difficulty in his life, cancer. He was very young for this disease. Amstrong was in his early twenties when he found out about it. I read a book about his life, and what impressed me were his words after his victory in France. He said: "Cancer was the best thing that ever happened to me ". He defeated the disease only because he believed in himself and did not give up. I think such person deserves to have a high salary and be loved by many people throughout the world.
	Personally, I think that the amount of money such sports stars make is more justified than the huge earnings of movie stars, but at the same time, it indicates that our society places more value on the sport than on the essential professions and achievements.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/265-nowadays-we-are-producing-more-and-more-rubbish",
Essay 1792:
	The modern society is generating an increasing amount of waste and the waste management has become one of the pressing issues both in developing and developed countries. With the inevitable rise in population and industrialisation, this problem will be further aggravated. The government can help decrease waste production by educating the public and by promoting recycling.
	The global population has reached a staggering seven billion recently. Solid waste is a by-product of this phenomenon. This number is expected to balloon to nine billion by 2050 if the current trend goes on. The amount of trash produced is likewise expected to rise. Manufacturing industries also contribute to the total of accumulated waste. While market demands go higher, the number of factories built also increases to satisfy this demand.
	This unsavoury problem has taken centre stage as the world focused on tackling global warming. One way that the government can help alleviate this burden on the environment is by educating the culprits – the general public. By promoting the use of reusable bags when shopping, the amount of plastic bags can be greatly reduced. Furthermore, the government can also run advertisements and put up posters in ways that a household can reduce the trash it generates. Another step that the government may undertake is through sound recycling. It must invest in a technology that can be managed through the municipal level. To encourage its citizens to adhere to this program, collection areas for recyclable materials must be accessible. Sweden has set these areas within 300 meters from residential areas and so far they are succeeding.
	To conclude, it is a fact that the human population will continue to rise. In order for the world’s natural resources remain sustainable, the government and the public must cooperate to find a solution to this ever-present problem.
	(Written by - Rhod S )
Essay 1793:
	Of late, humans are producing a ginormous amount of garbage - both domestic and industrial. There are many causes for the proliferation of rubbish these days. This essay delves into the causes and the remedial actions by the government to subdue the acute problem of debris.
	To begin with, the rapid growth of garbage is directly linked to the overwhelming number of population. To elucidate, As the number of people grows the number of products they consume also rises. This, in turn, inflates the waste production. Moreover, to meet the growing demands, new industries have to be set up which aggravate the situation further. To add more to that, modern life is practising throw-away culture. As the name suggested, people are less interested in using repaired commodities. Instead, they dispose old project and buy a new merchandise.
	There are numerous steps that a government can undertake to alleviate this condition. For instance, as plastic makes up almost 70 percent of the hoard of garbage, many authorities have put a ban on polythene usage. The other steps involve, government to exert strict ordinance to monitor the waste produced by industries. Furthermore, they can take up the initiative to encourage citizens to keep their surroundings clean.
	To recapitulate, the rise in population is the primary factor for an increase in littler. Another prominent attribute is the fostering of the throw-away culture. The government can take many measures to fight this problem. Few of them are banning eco-unfriendly products, applying stringent supervising on factories and encouraging residents to keep the community clean.
Essay 1794:
	In our highly industrialised era, there is a growing awareness about the excessive amounts of trash people producing. We are about to be flooded by different types of garbage if certain measures will not be taken. This essay will explore some causes of this and propose ways to solve the problem.
	To begin with, different food producers decided that their products will be selling better if they will pack them in small-sized boxes and packets. These colourful and attractive packs go straight to the trashcan; the number of packs is growing along with the consuming growth.
	More consuming produce more waste. Government and businesses encourage consuming because it leads to high profits and development of state economy. They are not interested in using something for a long time. Society is being bombarded with commercials, pleading to buy, for instance, a new mobile phone; buying new things because throwing away old but good things.
	The problem of garbage is very complicated. As we can see, the government is not interested in reducing consumption. Thus, the responsibility has to be taken by individuals and non-governmental organisations. Certain laws, regulating the percentage of packaging material per tonne of the product should be established. Moreover, interesting programs, involving people to participate can be developed. For example, a bonus for not asking for a plastic bag in supermarkets or for buying extra large packs of food.
	In addition, everyone should become concerned about the future of human beings and our planet. If we do not wish to be buried in rubbish, we should think twice before buying things we do not need.
	(This model answer has been prepared by the site developer. However, please note that this is just one example out of many possible answers.)
Essay 1795:
	Nowadays humans are producing more and more rubbish. Scientists argue why this problem appears in human life. The role of governments in reducing the amount of rubbish should be more or less.
	 The amount of waste we produce has increased. This problem is a result of our consumer culture. Advertisers encourage us to buy the newest fashions. If something breaks, we throw it away and buy a new one.  Products are not made to last. The amount of household waste is growing because most foods are sold non-biodegradable plastic packaging. This waste ends up in landfill sites. People do not think about the consequences of dropping rubbish. They assume that somebody is responsible for cleaning the streets, but they do not know who is this somebody. Most of the litter seen on streets is fast food packaging. The plastic packaging does not break down easily.
	Companies should make goods that last longer. They should not use so much packaging. Governments should be stricter, about waste produced by companies. They should put legal limits on the packaging. Consumers should avoid buying over-packaged products. We should recycle and reuse useful materials. There are collection banks for paper, glass and plastic bottles. Households can use several rubbish bins to separate waste. Recycling saves energy and raw materials. Governments should invest in transforming human culture, away from consumerism towards a culture of sustainability. They could impose green tax on drivers and airline companies. Government campaigns should promote recycling. Individuals should also try to be greener. We should recycle as much as possible.
	To summarise, it seems either governments or people should be responsible for the amount of rubbish is produced. Also, all human being should learn to be more environmentally friendly.
	(by Reihan )
Essay 1796:
	The environment today is threatened by many factors such as air pollution and so on. However, among the most concerning is the increase in the amount of waste production. It is argued that the main causes of this are the availability of poor quality products and over-population. To tackle these issues, government's role will be analysed for viability.
	To begin with, consumerism plays a key role in the rise of garbage around the world. Nowadays, people prefer replacing the old items with the new one when the existing one stops working, which in turn adds to the waste produced. In addition, the increase in the count of inhabitants means more people throwing the products which directly increases the quantity of sewage produced. Thus, it is apparent that both these factors are dependent on each other and thereby, contribute equally towards the rubbish addition.
	To counter this, the government can play a major role by monitoring the objects manufactured by the companies. In other words, they can enforce these organisations to produce durable items which can be used for the longer duration. As a consequence, disposing of products will be minimised and hence, the amount of waste produced will also be reduced to a greater extent. Along with this, legal entities should concentrate on educating society about the negative effects of excessive population and work together for controlling this growth.
	As it is clear, that population rise and less robust equipment's have led to the boost in the sewage within the nation. It is thus hoped that the government will implement regulations for developing sturdy products and thus, discourage people from creating rubbish.
	(by Aqueela Mansuri )
Essay 1797:
	It is undeniable that the increment of rubbish is giving problems to the society. In my opinion, this issue did not exist in the past, until thirty years ago, the change of human behaviour. There are a few reasons that cause the volume of rubbish increase. Let me illustrate the causes.
	First of all, from my point of view, one of the main reason for increasing rubbish is, overly purchase habit of people. Often, people nowadays tend to buy more than what they really need. It is very clear and obvious that whenever there are promotions, the sales volume will increases. As a result of that, people buy items that will not be used for a period of time and it will then be thrown away. Therefore the volume of rubbish is increasing.
	Apart from that, I would say, the lack of recycling practices in the society is another main reason. Recycling could reduce the volume of rubbish in the world by reusing the thrown away materials. By doing so, it could also reduce the usage of natural resources.
	Last but not least, a proper way of disposing of wastage and rubbish is a must. By implementing a proper way of disposing of rubbish, it could save cost and manpower to control the volume of rubbish at the same time.
	In conclusion, it is essential to control the volume of rubbish in the society. The government could educate the citizen with the knowledge of reducing rubbish in a good way. The government could hold campaigns, advertise or even educate the citizen, starting from young, maybe from primary school. If this issue continues to go on, it would cause damages to the earth, action must be taken before it is too late. I believe, government and citizen must work together in order to achieve this goal, as all things can be done with unity.
	(by - Micheal Chai )
Essay 1798:
	It is evident that people are generating more waste these days. There are reasons that lie beneath the issue and this essay will discuss them, and also will discuss some of the solutions that governments could do to resolve it.
	It is a fact that the amount of garbage that people produce these days has increased rapidly compared to the past. The main reason is due to the significant growth of the world population in the past few years. It is undeniable that waste production will automatically increase when the world population grows, as every individual will surely generate some wastages. Another reason is that people's  lifestyle has changed these days and they have adopted a throwaway habit. It is noticed that people prefer to use plastic bags or plastic mineral bottles rather than to bring their own permanent bags or bottles. Many people do not realise that plastic wastages need around one hundred years to be decomposed. People nowadays change their electronic gadgets and appliances more frequently than ever before.  This kind of living has seriously impacted the amount of rubbish that is produced each day.  
	There are some considerable solutions that governments could do in order to resolve the issue. Firstly, governments should make a clear regulation about limiting the usage of plastic bags and bottles. For example, governments could give tax incentives to retailers who reduce the usage of plastic bags and replace them with recyclable paper bags. Secondly, they could also make campaigns to the society about the negative effects of plastic bags and bottles to the environment. Campaigns could be made in the form of posters, short video clip or even a documentary film which can be easily accessed by the public. Furthermore, people have to be more careful about waste dumping and taking responsibility for waste recycling. By considering to these soluble solutions, it is hoped that the garbage production will decline in the future.
	In conclusion, it is true that nowadays people are producing more garbage than ever before. It is mainly due to the significant growth of the population, the usage of plastic materials and people's lifestyle. Some of the solutions that governments could do would be by setting clear regulations and making awareness campaigns to the society while people have to participate in waste recycling.
	(by - Darwin Lesmana )
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/264-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-38-the-government-has-announced-that-it-plans-to-build-a-new-university",
Essay 1799:
	Universities provide a high standard of education to their students and there is always a demand of new university to cater the need of growing population. Some people argue that having a university in the community has numerous benefits. It helps peoples to save time and cost of transportation to university and provides easy access to state of the art library and computer lab facilities. Despite this, the educational institution within our community could have detrimental effects on people lives. Congestion, traffic problems and increased housing rents are few issues mainly caused by it.
	Firstly, local people can save handsome amount and time while having a university in their surroundings, which was earlier utilised for transportation. Secondly, students have freedom of using laboratory and other services longer hours without having a feeling of being too distant from their homes. Thirdly, it also provides business to local peoples as many students come from other nearest cities and need basic amenities such as food, accommodation and others daily use of items.
	However, a university in our community could have dire consequences on the area it is located. It will cause congestion that will affect the privacy of the people and also create traffic problems and make people l badly suffer in reaching their offices and jobs on time. In addition to this, it is often seen that there is a dramatic rise in rents as a new institute established in any community. We have a university near our community and a new university establishment would create a great debate among the people in our community.
	To sum up I would like to say that university in a communal place is not a pragmatic approach and will increase people woes. Therefore, education institution should be in the suburbs of cities to cater large numbers of student efficiently and effectively. It will also ensure smooth working of traffic and others services. Considering all these, I would oppose the establishment of a new university in my community.
Essay 1800:
	From the one side, establishing a new university in my community brings many benefits. First of all, a new construction means more job opportunities. I think it would be good for my community because many people have to spend much time driving to their work day in and day out because they could not find a job in our neighbourhood. Second, of all, a new university is a good chance to meet new people and I like this opportunity. Many students will live in our community. Finally, if a new university is built in my community there is a big chance that I will be willing to enrol in it. I think it is great because it is not far from my place and I do not have to move to another part of the city. Another important aspect of this is that people from my community will have a chance to use new libraries and facilities of a new university. For example, some people can take courses and classes there.
	From the other side, building a new university can bring some disadvantages. A new construction means noise, traffic jams and different kinds of pollution. In addition to these disadvantages, many young people in our community can cause more noise, especially in the evenings.
	To sum up, I think that I would support the decision of the government of establishing a new university in my community despite a few disadvantages that could follow this construction. I believe that a new university will increase a chance of many young people to get a higher education, gain more knowledge and experience, which will help them to succeed in today’s world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/263-alternative-transport-should-be-encouraged-to-control-car-ownership",
Essay 1801:
	Modern life is almost impossible without motorised transportation and people are to move so frequently that they always want to own cars. In fact, transportation has become one of the most important parts and parcels of our lives. As the number of population is increasing day by day, so do their demands and needs for modern transportation facilities and that is why the number of vehicles has increased rapidly all over the world. However, for the last few years, air pollution has reached an intolerable level and it is the motorised vehicles that have been creating this acute problem with other factors. Currently, almost 58 million vehicles are running alone on the roads of Britain and day by day this number will increase geometrically. In fact, the problem began with the rapid development and growth of the cities and because of the increasing demand of people and it is badly needed to control it for our own benefits.
	It is true that with the development of the civilisation, the number of cars has increased on the streets and resulting air pollution, accidents, scarcity of fuels, sound pollution, and so on. But we can not avoid or cut off cars from our life overnight because life today has become hasty enough with routine work, office jobs, travelling, holiday activities, amusement etc. and without cars, it would be more troublesome. Therefore I believe that it is important to control the use of cars and to introduce an alternative form of the transportation system as well. Increasing the price of the fuel might be a solution as it will discourage people to drive cars so frequently and for those who are settling their mind to buy a new car. Cars emit Carbon dioxide, Carbon-Mono-Oxide and other harmful chemicals which are dangerous for the environment as well as for public health.
	To reduce the use of cars, we can introduce some alternative transportation systems like the underground railway, city coach service, train service, subtle train etc. If the transports are easily available and comfortable, people will be encouraged to use those to reduce the cost of owning private cars. Some non-motorized vehicles such as bicycles and rickshaws can be the substitute for the motorised vehicles. Once people are aware of the effects of global warming and air pollution, they will definitely use those forms of transportations for their own betterment. Those vehicles are environment-friendly and in some countries, people have already started using bicycles instead of cars, for example, China. If we can introduce river-based cheap and user-friendly transports and try to make them favourite among people, then it will be definitely helpful for the environment. This type of river-based transportation system has been already introduced in countries like Brazil.
	On the other hand, introducing a new law to regulate car ownership is also important. If there were an existing rule that any family cannot buy more than one car, the rapid increase of the car could have been controlled. Besides, the government should introduce a heavy tax on purchasing cars.        
	In summary, increasing use of cars and fuels is an acute problem for all of us. This problem can only be solved by introducing a new form of cheap and comfortable transports and by enforcing and introducing new strict laws. Otherwise, life in cities will become tougher with traffic jam and serious air pollution.
Essay 1802:
	Transportation is one of the human tools of development. That is why all countries are concerned about that topic and support research and initiatives in this field. The quality of transportation of individuals and goods affects strongly on economic growth. That article focuses on individual transportation and how transportation modes have been changing trough years from 1888 to 2000.
	At the end of the 19th century, there were few transport forms and all of them were simple with very slow speed except cars. Number of cars in that time period was not so high to extend that caused traffic, fuel or environmental problems. Therefore there was no motivation to invent innovative transport systems and modes.
	With the passage of time from 19thcentury until now, transportation demands and needs have been greatly increased. The dramatic increase in the numbers of cars, especially in the last three or four decades, forces all states to establish bridges, tunnels, highways etc. These different kinds of infrastructures and superstructures have extremely high costs. Such costs affect the state budget and lead to undesirable cuts of education, health and other services’ share in the annual budget. As those sectors are so vital, essential and cannot be cut for the sake of the transportation sector, stakeholders started thinking about new transport planning concepts and strategies which contribute to solving all transportation-related problems.
	Those problems are economical, environmental and social problems. Most of the experts in the field of ‘Urban Planning and Transportation’ admit that the decreasing number of private cars is the best effective way to solve all the previously mentioned problems. There are many ideas which can help reduce private cars in the streets like public transportation, carpooling, and encouraging bicycles as transport modes. It requires many actions and promotion to convince people to leave their own cars and use such alternative modes. These actions can be: improving public transportation, providing a discount on bicycles, giving priority to public transportation through special bus lanes and raising fuel prices etc.
	In summary, the whole world should encourage alternative modes and forms of transportation to compete with the traditional mode which is private cars. That will make our mother Earth greener and a better place to live in.
Essay 1803:
	In today’s fast-moving world where cars play an important role, it is believed by a majority of people that transportation by private mode or private car is more convenient and simple. Whereas others differ in the opinion that public transport is the best option in many aspects. However, I believe that travelling by public vehicles is a good option for the following reasons.
	First, various transport modes are there and they can carry the majority of passengers at a time which consumes the same fuel and occupy the road. Private cars which carry one person to four maximum is a way of consuming more fuel, to block more space in the road and cause traffic problems.
	On the other hand, metro rail mode of transportation is simple and fast which is better than cars and buses. Loophole with this one is that it cannot cover all streets. This metro carries passengers from one station to another destination both bus and metro rails reduce the pollutions compared to the private travelling.
	Otherwise, carpool is the next option for transport, but the above all they are handier when time management is considered. Certainly, alternative transports are mandatory and citizens must be aware of this concept moreover international control should be introduced to prevent private car ownership. These actions lead us to save petrol and diesel for coming generations where it cannot be manufactured
	If new cars come on roads every day, it leads to traffic problem and a lot of time consumption is noticed to travel shot or near distance and hence travellers should notice and use bicycles to cover surrounding areas which burn human energy and adds health benefits.     
	Lastly, utilisation of personal vehicles must be controlled for daily transportation simultaneously passengers should look after the public mode of travelling. 
Essay 1804:
	In the UK, the number of cars per household has increased alarmingly in the last few decades and this is primarily due to the lower cost of automobiles today. This topic is of particular interest because car use is harmful to the environment. This essay will offer suggestions on how to decrease the cars on British roads.
	To begin with, in order to cut down the number of cars on the street, one suggestion is to enhance the use of different kinds of public transports. By this I mean that it is a widely known fact that cars burn fossil fuel, which is extremely harmful to the environment, and by introducing an environmentally friendly vehicle, which must be cheap and convenient in order to encourage citizens to use them, the planet can be saved. For instance, the electric tram has been used in most places in the UK to decrease the number of private cars and many people choose to travel to their work using the tram because the price is reasonable and the time is perfect. Hence, it can be seen that by encouraging the use of alternative transport the problem of an increasing number of cars might be resolved.
	Another suggestion is to introduce a worldwide law to command car owners. In the last decade, the price of cars has decreased dramatically, and this helps people to buy cars easily. By imposing a law to increase the price per car, for example, this might help to reduce the number of cars seeing on British roads indeed.
	To conclude, this essay has looked at some suggestions to tackle the problem of rising car number in the UK. Perhaps, finding another type of transportation and introducing a strong law to control car numbers are the correct actions.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/262-the-threat-of-nuclear-weapons-maintains-world-peace",
Essay 1805:
	Some countries are developing their nuclear weapons these days, and it becomes a serious threat to the world peace. But it is undeniable that nuclear technology is clean for the environment and offers low-cost energy source. Therefore a lot of people believe that nuclear technology has more positive sides than its negatives. I personally disagree with the statement and the following essay will discuss in details about it.
	To begin with, even though nuclear power could be used as an alternative source of energy, but some parties could misuse the technology. Nuclear power plants can be used as propaganda by some countries, whereas they will tell the public that they only use the technology for power generation purposes. But, the public would never know what lies behind their plants, as they might be developing an advanced and sophisticated nuclear weapons.
	And then, although nuclear power plants are safe to the environment and cheaper in cost, many people still believe that they are a serious threat to the surrounding areas. Some countries have tried to manage their nuclear power plants cautiously, but sometimes unexpected events happen and cause a serious effect on the surrounding areas. For example, it is undeniable that Japan is well known for its advanced, effective and modern nuclear technology. But in the year 2010, a tsunami had struck one of the country’s power plants, and as a consequence, it caused a leakage in the plants and many casualties were found.
	In conclusion, although nuclear technology could be used as a clean and cheap source of energy, I strongly disagree with it. Even though strict monitoring is made sure for those nuclear plant and research centres, some countries might secretly use it as a weapon. And then, no matter how well the power plants are built, they could still be a threat for our civilisations, as we could never predict that any natural disaster could hit these power plants anytime.
Essay 1806:
	Nuclear power is an innovation of the modern science. It is the key source of nuclear weapons. Nuclear technology can be used for our benefits as the natural resources are limited and being exhausted every second. It can be the most efficient alternative to fuel, electricity, and other types of energy. But yet nuclear weapons are a threat to our existence and single misuse of this giant power can destroy our civilisation.
	Many of the first world countries have achieved the nuclear power and have become a superpower. It can initially seem that mono-polarization of nuclear power preserves world peace but the idea is not agreeable always. The present world is not in a position where powerful countries will shout at weaker and the peace will prevail. The reality is we notice lots of suicide bombing attack and the hatred; the wrath of the people is so acute that they won't even think about the existence of our civilisation. To maintain peace there must be a peaceful way. Anger, Power threat and domination can't keep the peace in the worlds. So I disagree with the statement that nuclear weapon can maintain the world peace and far-weight the disadvantages but I do agree with the idea that nuclear power can be a great source of cheap energy.
	It is very much true that nuclear power is an alternative and perhaps the most efficient source of energy during these days of the energy crisis. Unlike other natural resources such as petroleum or gas , it is highly effective for industrial, transportation and other purposes and it is pollution free. As it is limitless, there is no question of its being used up like other natural resources like natural gas. Moreover, to control the over-increasing environmental pollution we have to use this technology in every applicable field. One day we all will be bound to use nuclear power to continue our life when there won't be any natural gas, fuels at all.
	However, this power is not available to all walks of life. Even it is absent in many countries who are searching for an alternative energy source. Only a few countries can produce it and unfortunately they are very strict to conceal their technology. Without having easy-access, a source of energy can not be a good one. Besides nuclear power needs the utmost and very careful handling, in the case of any indulgence, or any misuse can cause a huge loss of life and property. For instance, Chernobyl Nuclear Plant hazard affected a huge loss of lives. The balance of ecosystem was completely disturbed and even now, after this long time, people are affected by the nuclear side-effects. This is one but not the only incidence of radioactivity and we must be cautious about what might happen in future.
	In addition, nuclear power tends superpower to dominate others. It has become general that a superpower can easily attack a weak nation with any lame cause but negotiate with superpowers. But this is not going to be the common scenario always.
	In conclusion, the nuclear power can be used for our benefit or even for destruction. This totally depends on the ideology, humanity and our well-thinking. So we must use it for our betterment, not for our destruction.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/261-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-35-some-people-prefer-to-eat-at-restaurants-while-others-prefer-to-prepare-and-eat-at-home",
Essay 1807:
	Food is a vital need for our living and people from different geographic locations are habituated to eat foods differently and the menu differs so greatly. Many people are happy to eat food outside the home and they think that preparing foods is a waste of time but to others outside food is like a toxin and they always avoid outside foods and prepare foods at home. In my opinion, both ways of taking foods have some advantages and disadvantages.
	If someone takes foods from a restaurant or fast food shop, he can save a great deal of time as food preparing is a cumbersome and time-consuming process. For those people there is no monotony of flaming the burner, washing the dishes, preparing the ingredients. They simply order the dishes and everything is ready for them. Moreover, restaurants offer a sound environment with a variety of menus. They don't have to maintain a time schedule to eat and mostly they spend time at a restaurant while they are not busy. Thus they can do lots of work without thinking the cooking issue. Cooking involved going to the grocery and buying vegetable, spices, rice, meat or fishes and it is really a difficult thing to do if someone is very busy with work. Restaurants offer an overwhelming environment to attract the people. They offer music, calm environment and better services.
	But eating in a restaurant is not always pleasant. It costs a great deal of money. Almost all of the dishes cost at least 3-4 times higher than those of home-made foods. Foods cooked in restaurants are not hygienic always and as the restaurant owners want more profit, they don't hesitate to cook low-cost vapid foods. Almost all the items prepared at home are cooked with great care and as it's a matter of our health issue, we choose the fresh and best ingredients while shopping. On the other hand restaurant owners always buy low-quality ingredients. This causes some serious health issues. Those who eat at restaurants are more likely to suffer from different diseases.
	Again, home-made foods are easy to digest and can be taken any time staying at home without thinking  ' what the overall bill are going to be'. Foods prepared at home can save a lot of money and considering the nutrition facts I prefer to prepare and eat foods at home. 
Essay 1808:
	Many people go to the restaurants for a meal whereas the others cook and eat meals at home. In my opinion, I opt to cook and eat meals at home because I would argue that it is healthier than to eat at restaurants.
	Firstly, many restaurants do not purchase fresh foods since they would like to decrease the cost of meals. They do not attend to the cleanliness and hygiene of foods. Hence, some people get poisoned by eating in restaurants. It is particularly dangerous for children because they are more vulnerable and can be easily ill from the poor quality of foods. As it is known, many people eat using the same dishes and drink from the same cups and bottles which are not even properly cleaned. If these things are not cleaned properly, they can be extremely dangerous for human health.
	Secondly, to prepare and eat foods at home can be more economic especially for a family. Because to eat at a restaurant frequently would cost a large amount and that would be pretty tough for low wage earners. The good restaurants that maintain the quality and hygiene of foods cost a lot that average people won’t be able to accommodate.
	On the other hand, restaurants can offer some advantages. For instance, if you eat at a restaurant, you can save your time. Because to prepare and eat at home one needs to spend a considerable amount of time and effort which could have been used in other constructive works. In addition, some restaurants offer delicious and variety of meals including foreign menus that we could not make at home on our own. You can eat awesome meals there and drink wines in a fascinating atmosphere. Moreover, to prepare and eat at home is a tough task for single and busy people who have very less spare time. So restaurants can be a better alternative for those people.
	In conclusion, it is considered by many that health is more important than money and delicious meals. I believe that if we prepare meals at home, we can prepare foods and dishes properly and we can use healthy ingredients. However, if you eat at a restaurant, you can not be sure that the meals and dishes are clean and healthy.
Essay 1809:
	There is no gainsaying in the fact that restaurant business is flourishing like never before. In earlier days, there were only a few restaurants where people visited on special occasions. But now, we have eateries in every nook and corner of the city; which are swamped with people of all ages. Admittedly, I too like to go and eat at restaurants but occasionally and prefer to cook and eat at home daily.
	There is no comparison of the freshly home-cooked meal to restaurant food. Every raw material is handpicked, fresh vegetables, good quality oil, and condiments are used, which not only increases the nutrition values of food but is delicious too. We are sure that the food cooked is hygienic whereas we are not sure of the quality of ingredients used in the restaurant and its hygienic condition. Recently in Kerala, India there were live worms were found in chicken in KFC store which is a renowned food chain across the world. On further investigation, it was found the products used were expired.
	Many people find cooking as a stress busting activity too. Family members can help each other in daily cooking and hence can spend quality time with each other. This way, they can also extol the importance of home cooked food to children. These days obesity is a very common problem which arises due to wrong eating habits and eating outside frequently is the major cause. Restaurant food is often fried and hence lots of calories, cholesterol, unsaturated fat which not makes us fat but slowly results in diseases like heart attack and diabetes. Apart from this, we also squander a lot of money when we at the restaurant frequently; which could otherwise be saved or used for other purposes.
	In a nutshell, home cooked meal is not only healthy and hygienic but can be interesting too. One can try making one dish in several by experimenting with ingredients. Parents should encourage their children to eat at home and inculcate the habit of cooking right from the childhood.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/260-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-34-tobacco-should-be-treated-as-illegal-like-other-drugs",
Essay 1810:
	The drugs those are strong and cause harm to human are considered illegal and are prohibited in almost all the countries considering the bad effects. Those drugs are very much addicted and the people who take it regularly destroy his life and can not lead a normal life. Likewise, tobacco is another phenomenon that has a strong beckoning towards people of all ages. Considering the bad effects, therefore, it should be considered unlawful and prohibited.
	There are lots of substances presented in the tobacco and people become much more addictive to the tobacco because it is easily accessible and does not cost that much at a time compared to other illegal drugs. There are enough scientific reasons to believe that once a person becomes addicted towards tobacco, can't leave it easily like other strong drugs. Many people even exhaust more than 20 cigarettes daily and eventually increase the possibility to be infected with lung cancer or many other serious diseases. The person who smokes or takes tobacco in other ways harms himself as well as the people surrounding them. Because it is proven in medical science that second-hand smoking causes the same physical problems as the first-hand smoking does. So considering the issue I strongly opine that all tobacco should be banned like other harmful drugs.
	Many people think that tobacco creates some opportunities. For instance, they mention the number of people involved in these industries from farmer to manufacturing workers. They also think that tobacco companies often help people by sponsoring big sports events, initiating some social works like tree-plantation, star search programs etc. In my opinion, all those are eye wash for people. The companies are uplifting their fortunes by destroying innocent peoples' lives. Think about a family that has loose their only earning member because he was a chain smoker for 20 years and recently died of lung cancer. The effects are overwhelming compared to what tobacco companies do for us. I believe there are lots of organisations who are happy to initiate the same social programs for the betterment of people. Science has proven that the amount of nicotine contained in a cigarette is pushed directly into someone's body, he will die at once. So tobacco business is a social crime at large. Furthermore, those who cultivate tobacco, process it prepare cigarette and smokes ultimately become the victims of many serious diseases like cancer, heart diseases and bronchitis. In addition buying tobacco costs money which could have been used for some good thing. Teenagers addicted to tobacco involve themselves to some other drugs and tobacco is always the gateway to other drugs.
Essay 1811:
	Health is considered the most precious gift that we all have so it is essential to think carefully about things that may have a harmful effect on individuals. Many people argue that tobacco smoking should be considered illegal as other drugs because it has more detriments than benefits. However, this is refuted by others. Both sides will be critiqued before a reasoned conclusion is formed.
	It is felt by many that cigarette smoking has deleterious effects on person's life. For example, it has been shown in many research studies that tobacco is one of the risk factors to many diseases including cancer, particularly lung cancer, cardiovascular diseases and others. This example clearly shows that smoking can be very harmful and has a tremendous financial burden on not only the personal budget but also health sector.
	On the other side, many people think that smoking is a personal decision. In addition, it cannot be compared to drugs as it provides health benefits like memory and attention enhancing and preventing ulcerative colitis. Moreover, it is used in some medications.
	After analysing these two points of view, I believe that the cons of smoking outweigh the pros and the usage of tobacco should be limited for medical treatments authorised by governments. Without a doubt, I think that smoking is an important topic that has effects on various aspects of human's life and other people's life as no one focus on the passive smoking issue and the government should pay more attention and invent new policies regarding smoking.
Essay 1812:
	Most of the drugs are banned in all nations as they are the root cause of many incurable diseases, mental instability and  social problems. Tobacco is considered similar to these drugs, as it engenders a myriad of negative impacts on the human beings. I totally agree that tobacco must be banned as it can engender diseases as well as can cause addictions.
	Firstly, it is apparent that smoking can lead to vulnerable diseases like cancer, as tobacco contains a harmful ingredient called Nicotine. Moreover, smoking not only creates a physical imbalance among the smokers but also attracts diseases among passive smokers due to the air pollution created by it. A research done, in August 2014 by a group of scientists based in California, illustrates that seventy percent of the people affected by smoking are non-smokers. Therefore, it is crystal clear that Nicotine must be prohibited.
	Secondly, almost all smokers are addicted to the smoking habit, due to the reason that Nicotine attracts this peculiar characteristic. Furthermore, if a smoker forcefully tries to put an end to the smoking habit, it is predicted that he or she will come under mental imbalance. For instance, if a patient asks some remedies with a physician to give up smoking, definitely the doctor would recommend decreasing the habit on a daily basis, instead of stopping suddenly. It might take a few years to get rid of this habit. Thus, it is obvious that tobacco has a huge negative impact.
	Smoking does not have a single positive side and that’s why it should be immediately banned. It costs a large amount of money, it puts our mental and physical health in danger and creates many others diseases to people.
	In conclusion, by analysing how tobacco can destroy the health of people as well as cause addiction, it is obvious that Tobacco products must be banned. It is suggested that governments give banning notice well in advance so that the smokers can quit the habit slowly.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/259-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-33-compare-the-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-living-in-the-city-to-living-in-the-country-side",
Essay 1813:
	The places where people live affects greatly in their lifestyles and the living place is one of the very basic needs for people. People opine differently while choosing the living places. Some prefer and argue that city is the best place to live at since it provides so many advantages over the rural area, but other think that villages are the best places to live a good life. Both places have advantages and disadvantages.
	It is true that a city offers so many opportunities and advantages those are absent in a countryside. For instance, the modern transportation and communication systems are better in any city compared to a village. In a city people have access to many different transportation systems and have latest technologies to communicate; like cellular phones, internet, fax etc. Moreover, when a new technology arrives at the country it is first introduced in the city area and usually 2/3 years later to the village. Secondly, cities provide better security to its inhabitants like the mobile police patrols, special forces, community police, security guards, traffic police etc. But in the village, the number of security force persons are too low compared to the overall population. Moreover, cities provide better treatment, hospitals, qualified doctors, better educational institutes, and amusement parks etc which are really inevitable to lead a better life. In many cases, those facilities are absent or rare in a village. In my opinion, the reason for why most people tend to live in a city is the vast opportunities of jobs. Most of the corporate offices, industries, factories, government offices, garments and manufacturing industries are either situated in a city or close to the city. People have much more employment opportunities in a city than a village. On the contrary, people living in a village, are often forced to do a job that is not suitable at all for him since the job opportunity is so narrow there. Again, schools or colleges are not equipped with a better environment, labs, teachers and that's why students in a village might not get a better education he/she deserves. If we consider the entertainment facilities in a city then citizens of a city have so many options like theatre, park, art gallery, museum, amusement parks, libraries etc. But people in the villages have only TV or books and very little facilities to spend leisure time.      
	On the other hand, Villages offer many invaluable advantages those are completely absent in the cities. First of all, someone living in a village can get fresh air and water. There is no intense pollution with smoke, Carbon-DI-oxide, Carbon-mono-oxide, Nitrous-Oxide and people living in a village are less prone to suffer diseases like asthma, bronchitis etc. The city can provide security against visible foes but it causes people to face some invisible and dangerous enemies like toxic and polluted air, water and environment. Secondly, people of villages live much nearer to the nature and breathe in the fresh air, as well as eat fresh foods, vegetables, fruits collected directly from the garden. On the contrary vegetables, foods, fruits in the cities are normally stored and mixed with preservatives and can cause serious harms to the health. The living cost in a countryside is much lesser than that of a city. The density of population in a village is much less than a  city and village people are naturally grow up their personal relationship among all people and live like a real community and take care of each other. While in the city people do not know even who live in the next door and personal relationship in a community is rare.
	In my case, I prefer to live in the city. I feel relaxed and comfortable staying in my own city. There are lots of facilities I can't deny are presented in my city and those are the invaluable part of my lifestyle. Moreover, I like to lead a busy and challenging life and want to be connected with the world. I enjoy visiting countryside but get bored there if I stay more than 2/3 days because all of my necessary stuff to lead my as usual life are absent there.
Essay 1814:
	Whether cities are better than rural area or vice-versa is a contentious question, it depends on one's choice, as to, what they prefer. Both cities and rural areas have their pros and cons.  Rural areas have quaint environments whereas there is always something fascinating about big cities.
	Cities generally have better infrastructure, education system and advance health care facilities. You get to meet people from all walks of life, learn to coexist with people from different ethnicity, race, caste and culture; hence you become more tolerant, open minded and start respecting each other differences. Whereas countryside people are less tolerant, caste system still prevails and the powers lie with a certain group of people. If you see, today in India, Love marriages /inter-caste marriages are very common in cities, whereas people are being murdered in the name of honour in rural areas. Gender inequality is very evident in a rural area, where women are being restricted only to household chores and do not have much say in decision making, but in cities, both are treated equally. It is not uncommon to see people migrating to cities for better jobs, better education.
	People in the cities are always under tremendous pressure and stress, they always have to be up to date with technologies and hence there is no time to relax. Recently studies have shown a surge in the number of cases of heart attacks, which is due to increase in stress level. People in cities are constantly exposed to high level of pollution, adulterated food and chemically grown vegetables, which adversely affects their health, owing to which the average life of people living is cities is less than people living in rural area. Increased cases of obesity, suicides, diabetes are also resulting in stress and unhealthy living. Rural areas on other hand have no or very less pollution, pure food item and less stress, people have more time for themselves and their families.
	To sum up, I think both cities and rural areas have their own charm. Cities have more busy and hectic life but have better facilities, rural areas, on the contrary, have more relaxed, laid back lifestyle but lacks in up to date technologies like computers and international standard of healthcare and education system.
Essay 1815:
	Many people consider living in cities and they think that this is more advantageous while another group prefers living in the countryside as they find it as a better alternative. Living in a city and in an urban area, both has their advantages and disadvantages.
	First of all, living in a city is very stressful as the life is very busy and competitive there. Cities have lot more vehicles, industries and a large population and that pollutes the environment which is very harmful to the health. It is particularly tough for low earning people as the expenses in living in a city is always higher. People suffer from many health problems that live in a city and especially they suffer a lot in the old ages. Recently I have read a book and this book reveals some surprising facts about living in a city. I was pretty surprised to find that ''people who live in country sides have more life expectancy than live in an urban area.''
	On the other hand, city life offers numerous facilities and opportunities compared to the living in urban area. For instance, job opportunity and to run small businesses have better prospects in a city than in the countryside. People can easily find a new job in case s/he loses a job and there are many other earning prospects in a city that could not be found in a village. For economically solvent people, the city offers many social and entertainment facilities like Cineplex, sports event in stadiums, amusement parks, museum etc. Opposite to this, rural areas do not offer many opportunities for social life and lacks the entertainment facilities. Also, people can’t purchase everything they need from a village market and markets are very rare in most of the urban areas. Regarding this, I would like to mention my own experience that I had a few days back. I went to a rural area called Tillo and I had my cell phone damaged there. I could not find any phone servicing centre there and I had to go to the city to have it repaired.
	In conclusion, both the cities and rural areas have their advantages and disadvantages.
Essay 1816:
	Our earth is home to around six billion people living all around the globe, many of them are urbanites and other ruralites. One line of thought of society states that it’s beneficial to live in urban areas, however, others stand opposite to it. But this thought is gyrated by many reasons.
	The urban society provides great means of basic amenities necessary for living life. We can find lot schools and other education institutions in cities where the tiny tots make their future and turn into better future civilians. On the contrary, the students from villages come to the cities to have the education. Health facilities are also found in abundance in urban areas. Whenever the people in a rural area  have any serious health issues rush to the urban areas to avail these facilities. Apart from this, the vast amount of transports facilities has made life immensely easy to live in urban areas. On the flipside, the villagers have great difficulty in transport as proper means are not present and if present the roads are not proper to run them as they are never properly sanitised. The facilities of shopping malls and supermarkets have helped to gain access to necessary items under one roof easily decreasing our time utility.
	However, if take a glance at rural society, we will be able to find lush green fields, fresh air and pure environment which is highly polluted in the cities. The villagers have a healthy lifestyle which is very scant in urban areas. People of rural areas are more socialised whereas that of urban areas are mammon worshippers, always running to make both ends meet. Parents of urban society have very less time due to which they are slowly drifted in oblivion, whereas the children of rural society share a great bond with their parents. The crime rate is far less in rural parts as compared to urban where crime is found in every nook and corner of the society.  
	At last keeping all the aspects in mind, we can conclude that living in any part has both benefits and drawbacks, however, it’s totally subjective choice that which society cater our needs better.
Essay 1817:
	In the modern society, some people like to live in a city area and few enjoy an open countryside to live. There are some blessings and drawbacks in both sites. Many people of today’s society are of the opinion that living in cities is better than living in a rural area while others oppose this concept but my inclination is toward the former.
	On one hand, it is believed that city life has significantly various advantages in contrast to rural life. The most vital point for the demand which can initially be mentioned is that all services are easily reachable in the city area. Such as most of the major educational institute, hospital, bank all are generally situated in the city area. So city dwellers can get these services within a short period rather than who lives in villages. For example, we used to stay in villages but when we were in grade six our parents sent us to town for better education. What's more, city people can enjoy their life with different amusing activities called as theatre, cultural activities and visit a nice restaurant. But in a village, there is no such place where villagers can animate their free time so life is so boring. A further point is that there are a lot of working opportunities in the commercial area. To clarify this matter people can find any suitable job in the factory, hotel, restaurant, shopping mall and run their livelihood, besides also enhance the economic growth of any countries.
	On the other hand, there are some negative sides to living in town and have some positive points to live in the countryside. What can be cited first regarding this is city life are more stressful due to its busy atmosphere and noisy heavy traffics while a countryside is a peaceful place to live because of its quiet and calm environment, villagers can breathe in open air and enjoy the tranquillity of the environment.
	In a nutshell taking all the aforementioned pros and cons into account, I personally admire to live in town.
Essay 1818:
	Peoples have different opinions while choosing their living place. Some people think that a village is a better place to live in, while others think a city is a preferred candidate to choose for their living. In my opinion,  there are several reasons to believe that cities are the best places to live in because they provide facilities for a comfortable life.  
	First of all, a city provides better education and career prospects .The renowned and excellent schools are built in the cities because most of the population live in cities. These schools employ the qualified teachers to provide education to the children. A child who gets the education in a city is considered the better one because of his broad range of experience and deep knowledge. The government and private businessman build universities and colleges in the city to improve the learning and skills in students. Various laboratories use the advanced appliances instruments that aid the students in higher education especially in research and this facility is mostly available in a city area. I have learned to operate IR spectrophotometers from Punjab University which is situated in Chandigarh City and cities are mostly the hub of education.
	Moreover, a city provides better prospects of life. The shops, malls are built in a city to attract customers from large area. The important home appliances like fan, refrigerator, car etc. are available in cities at a reasonable cost. Government offices are built in cities. Living in cities can help avoiding the dwellers to travel from village to city to do important official works. A city also provides sources of entertainment. Many festivals, carnivals are organised in the cities. Even peoples from the rural area come to a city to watch their favourite movies in Cinema Hall and Theatres. Sports stadium, training centres are located in cities. City life offers too many facilities that are absent in rural lives.
	The most important thing is that the city provides better medical services. Best hospitals, medical centres are built in big towns so that majority of people can have medical facilities. In these centres, expert doctors, specialist like neurosurgeons, heart surgeon works to treat peoples. These medical centres not only use advanced machines & instruments but also offer operation theatres for different types of operations for critical diseases. Cities are safe on health ground and have well-planned sanitation to avoid spreading epidemic. Cities have lifesaving medical centres.
	In summation, it is clear that city is the better place to live. The city not only provides good education and civil life but also provides best medical facilities.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/258-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-32-children-are-more-successful-in-foreign-language-studies-than-adults",
Essay 1819:
	Learning at least one foreign language has become a necessity in the modern world. Although some people believe that one can easily acquire a new language after extensive learning, others claim that age also plays a considerable role in foreign language acquisition. Indeed, it is much easier for children and teenagers to master a new language than it is for adults and especially elderly people.
	To begin with, younger individuals tend to be fast learners due to their developing acquisition skills. Most children and teenagers are used to learning new things, which make mastering a new language as easy as a piece of pie. For instance, toddlers are able to pick up a new language if their parents interact with them using this particular language. However, adults are unlikely to learn a foreign language in the same way.
	Then again, adults are too busy at work and have to worry about supporting their family, which certainly distracts them from the process of learning. A good illustration of this case will be evening language courses. Tired after work, adults are not able to make the most of their lessons and thus, cannot learn effectively. Younger people, in their turn, spend a lot of time studying and possess a range of skills to help them improve their foreign language.
	Undoubtedly, there are individuals who are so talented that they can learn a new language at any age. However, one has to remember that such people are often a rare exception rather than a common fact.
	Research shows that the brain pattern of a child is in better condition to accept new things that the brain pattern of an average adult. This gives a competitive advantage to the curious young people to learn new things easily than the adults. The trends of quickly learning how to operate a computer by younger people are much more efficient than the learning process of an elderly people and this is true for learning a new language as well.
	To conclude, learning a foreign language is a challenge for most people. However, younger people have better chances to speak a new language faster compared to those who are over thirty.
	(Submitted by Yulia)
Essay 1820:
	The viewpoint that children are better learners became almost a common sense, although it is not always true in terms of learning foreign languages. When it comes to making an approach to, for example, Japanese or French, adults have proven themselves superior learners because of their experience of getting knowledge of their own language and their performance is generally better motivated.
	Every adult has some amount of education and it means that he has already received a general understanding of the structure of the native language. Thus, this more or less categorised base usually serves as a template for foreign grammar or vocabulary. A person only has to place new material on certain shelves in his memory and operate them like it his own language. Children, in contrast, are usually confused by any grammar, even of their country. Bringing foreign language to curriculum adds embarrassment because they do not have sufficient understanding of grammatical of semantic categories and can not bring to order such huge amounts of information.
	Grown-ups also appear to be more enthusiastic about language studies. As a matter of fact, this skill for them is a tool that can be used to achieve career goals. Obviously, a more motivated individual do better, and even if his abilities are modest, through practice success can come very fast and a lot of success stories can prove it. Kids, though, usually consider second language lessons as a fun or, otherwise, something boring and, even if they tend to absorb knowledge like sponges, without use it rapidly disappears. With no proper encouragement youngsters just do not know they have to practice new words and grammar in order not to forget them.
	Thus, while it would not be a mistake to suggest children are naturally better learners, let us not forget that adults are usually better suited to language studies.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/257-improvements-in-health-education-and-trade-are-essential-for-the-development-of-poorer-nations",
Essay 1821:
	In balancing the world economic growth, the underdevelopment of the third world nations has been drawn to the attention of the developed countries of the Western. Thus, governmental policies and interference in the agricultural business of the poorer nations were made to secure their dominant source of the economy. Many discussions among economists and politicians also put their focus on the other aspects. That is, to improve the health, education and trade for the developing countries. However, the improvements cannot be made by these countries, but more external assistance and aids should be done.
	Because of the shortage of food supply, the people in poorer nations (i.e. Africa) are easily prone to disease, hunger and death. When natural or environmental disasters happen, they are threatening with their lives. Education cannot be well developed as a result of frequent droughts, famines and disease spreading. The other countries, while emphasising on the development of agriculture in the Third World, cannot really give the solution to the cyclical problem which has been existing for a long time. It is time to consider the consequences of all the waste of efforts in trying to help the economic growth of the Third World and to think from the other perspectives. The richer countries have the power to rebuild the Third World by taking care the essentials - health, education and trade. More aids for providing the medicine, educational needs and materials can be done by the richer countries. The assistance of trade and developing business in the poorer countries also can be of a great help to the poorer nations.
	If the richer countries can be more serious about the essential issues of how a nation develops, and well consider the special situations and circumstances those poorer nations are facing, the improvements will be more efficiently made. The governments of developed countries are, in some ways, responsible - though not obliged - for the future of those developing countries.
Essay 1822:
	Today’s world has been divided into developing and industrialised countries where the main difference between them is the amount of money that governments apply in important sectors such as education, health and commerce. Most of the poorer nations are buried in debts as a result of their unbalanced finances which are reflected in a poor health care, an unstructured education system and a weak international trade. This vicious cycle will continue indefinitely unless wealthier nations show interest in minimising the worldwide economic differences, as well as taking more responsibility for assisting unfortunate countries.
	Most of the African countries live in inhuman conditions because of the extreme poverty, upheaval, hunger, disease, unemployment, lack of education and both inexperienced and corrupt administrations. The devastating consequences of the AIDS epidemic in those countries could improve if the infected populations receive free drugs to control the disease, have access to health professionals and get information on how to prevent its spread. But this can only be achieved through international help programs in which leaders of the world?s richest countries donate medicine and also send doctors and nurses to treat and educate those in need.
	Moreover, most of the poor countries rely on selling agricultural products and raw material to rich nations and buying industrialised products from them which result in a huge financial deficit. Consequently,
	they borrow a significant amount of money from the World Bank to try to improve their broken economies, but sometimes the money disappears with no significant changes and they cannot even pay the interest to the bank. Regarding this issue, last year the G8, which is comprised of leaders of the eight richest nations, decided to forgive billions of dollars worth of debt owed by the world?s poorest nations. In addition, they developed adequate loan programs to financially assist those countries.
	In conclusion, leaders of the industrialised countries play an indispensable role in assisting developing nations to deal with essential areas such as health, education and trade. Also, their aid is the key to breaking the vicious cycle, which results in poverty and death.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/256-in-many-countries-children-are-engaged-in-some-kind-of-paid-work",
Essay 1823:
	The issue of children doing paid work is a complex and sensitive one. It is difficult to say who has the right to judge whether children working is ‘wrong’ or ‘valuable’. Opinions will also differ as to ‘learning’ benefits: no doubt teachers and factory owners, for example, would have varying concerns.
	An important consideration is the kind of work undertaken. Young children doing arduous and repetitive tasks on a factory production line, for example, are less likely to be ‘learning’ than older children helping in an old people’s home. There are health and safety issues to be considered as well. It is an unfortunate fact that many employers may prefer to use the services of children simply to save money by paying them less than adults and it is this type of exploitation that should be discouraged. There is a big possibility that those working kids are influenced by different types of people they are working with and some lead them to a malevolent way. For example, most of the working kids in the factory start smoking and even abuse drugs at a very early age. Some kids are engaged in full-time jobs to support their family and thus how completely destroying their education.
	However, in many countries children work because their families need the additional income, no matter how small. This was certainly the case in the past in many industrialised countries, and it is very difficult to judge that it is wrong for children today to contribute to the family income in this way. A working child in many cases is the only earning member for many families. So their support is invaluable and they can’t leave the jobs no matter how hazardous the job is.
	Nevertheless, I would like to conclude that, in better economic circumstances, few parents would choose to send their children out to full-time paid work. If learning responsibilities and work experience are considered to be important, then children can acquire these by having light, part-time jobs or even doing tasks such as helping their parents around the family home, which are unpaid, but undoubtedly of value in children development.
Essay 1824:
	In the past few years, life has become really tough for many people and because of the ever increasing living expenses some people send their children to earn to lessen the load. In some cases, children of fatherless families have no other choice but to start working for a living and supporting the family.
	In fact, children going to work has become a very common issue that has been discussed by many human rights organisations. In my opinion, the young children must be brought up to be responsible and be able to face the difficulties of life and hence they should start working from the early ages.
	So why go to school and university if your parents can’t afford it? In my belief, it's less expensive and more effective to learn this craft works from the young age by going to learn and work practically, and that, of course, will give him valuable experience. On the other hand, working from the early age teaches people to become more responsible and practical. We might go against the idea of child labour in first world country but the scenarios in a third world country are completely different. In those countries, there are thousands of families where children are the primary earner. The country can’t ensure the education and living of these families and hence they do not have the right to abolish the early childhood working trends.
	In conclusion, I am not with the idea of children's work in all the circumstances, but in certain situations as I have illustrated. If the child is looking forward to having a good profession in a large organisation, I don't think that going to early work is a good idea.
Essay 1825:
	On one hand, every child must be educated firstly, so that the child may have exposed to all types of subjects like Mathematics, Science, Social-Science etc. So when children grow, they may have the right to choose the field they are most interested in and may enhance the knowledge that supports to implement the skills learned to create miracles in the challenging world. If a child was not educated and engaged in some paid works results in no exposure to such fields and adheres to chores child indulged.
	On the other hand, it is always rudimentary to have responsibilities for a child if he comes up with poor background or poverty. So, here the financial condition of a family forces the child to get involved in paid works.  Fortunately having a job in childhood, adds huge valuable experience to the personality. If the child was gifted with some entrepreneurship skills, this experience helps a lot to establish own industry and will have an opportunity to provide jobs for other people in need. Apart from that learning helps a lot and plays a vital role here. For instance, he can solve any problem on his own through learning and experience.
	Finally, to conclude, education is essential for every child to gain knowledge regarding various aspects and implementing them in the desired field though paid works add experience at that young age.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/255-how-many-children-a-family-can-have-should-be-strictly-controlled",
Essay 1826:
	Over population is a great concern for many under-developed countries and the government takes many steps to control the uncontrolled increase of population. In many countries, government impose rules to restrict the number of children a family can have and also restricts many facilities in case a family has too many children. But imposing a tax to restrict the number of children in a family is not a feasible solution. In my opinion, other ways of controlling the population in a country should be considered rather than imposing the tax.
	First of all, the population is the main problem in most of the third world countries whereas the developed countries mostly have control over that issue. In countries like china, the population is not a burden rather they have been able to use the large population as the main workforce for the steady improvement of the country. Overpopulation in an under-developed country directly related to poverty, illiteracy, unhygienic lifestyle and crime. So controlling the population in these countries is a must and imposing a tax on the poor people would not be a good idea. The trends show that educated upper class and middle class do not take more than two children in these countries where the poor people seems like have no control on that. If the government imposes the tax on those poor people, their life would become more miserable.
	In conclusion, I completely agree that the government of a country should take any initiative to control the over population growth but tax imposing to poor people is the least effective solution since there are many alternatives.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/254-the-position-of-women-in-society-has-changed-markedly-in-the-last-twenty-years",
Essay 1827:
	Over the last twenty years, the women empowerment and employment have gone through rapid changes and more women are working in the different sphere of society than ever. This is, in fact, advantageous for the overall growth a country and at the same time this is one of the main reasons the juvenile delinquency has increased nowadays.
	First of all, a child needs the tenderness and guidance of parents and if both parents are working they have very little time to spend with the children. The trends of both working parents are leading depression, lack of morality and lose family tie which has severe psychological damage among the teenagers. This is directly leading to issues like crime, drug and immoral activities conducted by the adolescents.   
	Again, this is a long time trend that a father would bring the daily bread for the family while mother would foster and take care of the children in most of the society and with the women empowerment, this harmony has been changed. There is no harm in women employment and in fact this is positive from many perspectives and yet we can see an immense competition among the married couple especially regarding their career while they totally overlook their needs for their children. Fatherhood is important and he has many roles to play for the children but a mother, as we have seen throughout the century, makes the major share of contribution towards upbringing the children. When a mother has very little time to share with her kids, the problem related to juvenile crime increases.
	The teenage time is a very sensitive time in everyone’s life and if parents can’t contribute their duties at that time, the children have a chance to go astray. With working mothers, this is happening more than ever.
Essay 1828:
	It is certainly true that the position of women in society has undergone a dramatic change in the past twenty years but I do not feel that this is a direct cause of the indisputable increase in juvenile-related problems during this period.
	It is now accepted that young women should find work on leaving school; indeed to rely totally on their parents' financial support is no longer an option for many families. Likewise, once they get married, the majority of women continue working since the financial pressures of setting up a house and establishing a reasonable standard of living often require two incomes.
	Twenty years ago it was common for women to give up work once they had children and devote their time to caring for their children. This is no longer the general rule and the provision of professionally-run child care facilities and day nurseries have removed much of the responsibility for child-rearing that used to fall to mothers. However, these facilities come at a cost and often require two salaries coming into a family to be afforded.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/253-when-country-develops-its-technology-traditional-skills-and-ways-of-life-die",
Essay 1829:
	The issue ‘with the development of the technology traditional skills and the conventional lifestyle die’ is a controversial one and needs deeper argument before supporting or opposing the issue. Overall, I disagree with the opinion expressed; I would like to begin by pointing out that ‘traditional skills and ways of life’ are not totally vanished from one country, culture or community because of the introduction of technology.
	In many ways, the history of civilisation is the history of technology: from the discovery of fire to the invention of the wheel to the development of the Internet we have been moving on from previous ways of doing things. Some technologies, such as weapons of mass destruction, are of negative impact. Others, such as medical advances, positively help people to live better or longer, and so very much help traditional ways of life. Surely, few people would seek to preserve such traditions as living in caves. Technology will always follow its own footsteps no matter what we, some people think about it. Technology advances because we need it. So there is no way to prevent the advancement of the technology but we should embrace it positively. The generation of a country is responsible for preserving their own custom and tradition and if people feel eager to save a tradition then there is no way technological advancement will destroy it. There are many cases where technology replaces human labour to create certain things, for example, handmade sari, which is still popular in many countries. Technology, in this case, has not destroyed the old tradition but has introduced a faster and less expensive ways to create the same thing.             
	Interestingly, technology can positively contribute to the keeping alive of traditional skills and ways of life. For example, the populations of some islands are too small to have normal schools. Rather than breaking up families by sending children to the mainland, education authorities have been able to use the Internet to deliver schooling online. In addition, the Internet, and modern refrigeration techniques are being used to keep alive the traditional skills of producing salmon; it can now be ordered from, and delivered to, anywhere in the world.
	In conclusion, without suggesting that all technology is necessarily good, I think it is by no means ‘pointless’, in any way, to try to keep traditions alive with technology. We should not ignore technology because it can be our friend and support our way of life.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/252-without-capital-punishment-our-lives-are-less-secure-and-crimes-of-violence-increase",
Essay 1830:
	Nowadays, the crime rate is accelerating according to many surveys. To rein this situation, there should be a mechanism in place like jail for lifetime and death penalty based on the severity of the crime. The government should enforce such laws to create a high alert around the society and endorse a secure ruling to its people.
	Many incidents are the best examples of imbalanced society values in the recent days. Those are like killing someone's own mother or a plan to murder the best friend due to immaturity. If there is no mechanism to stop such kind of incidents would severely impact the society livelihood. Hence, capital punishment is mandatory to implicate a fear among the people who create such violence and which ensures the peaceful life of innocent people.
	In fact, I believe the death penalty is the only way to punish the criminals as they commit serious crimes which directly aid in controlling the violence at least to some extent. For instance, recently a group of five men brutally raped and murdered a woman in the broad daylight. Due to that, the high court had punished death penalty to that group which has created a sensation as the capital punishment is very rare in my country and social volunteers said the crime rate is gradually decreasing after that incident. Thus, violence is effectively controlled if the capital punishment is endorsed by a society.
	In some society, the crime is so violent and severer that the government and the law enforcing authority have to handle that strictly. As a result, they do not have any alternative other than imposing capital punishment.  Capital punishment gives a message that you won’t be given any second chance if you commit a serious crime like murdering someone. This message is strongly needed in some society to control the crime rate. Without capital punishment, you can’t ensure that the same criminal won’t commit the crime again. You can’t actually control the crime and severe lawbreaking with the minor punishment in all of the countries. The theme that someone who murdered another human will regret someday and after few years would lead a dignified and free life when the relatives and family members of the victim would remorse forever.  What punishment do you have in your mind if someone is a psychopathic killer and is out of redemption? Minor punishment and reformation facility? This does not just make sense.
	To summarise, capital punishment is important to bring down the crime ratio and to also provide the secured life. Otherwise, ambience in the society will disturb which is not recommended for the common man. Hence, it is advisable to imply such punishment which leads a peaceful life with less violence in these days and also in the future.
Essay 1831:
	Before talking about the essential role of the death penalty, you have to think about the meaning, and the purpose, of any kind of punishment. If you consider that the purpose is to prevent the guilty from being nasty again, you can be seduced by an argumentation in favour of the suppression of capital punishment.
	But you have to think about another aspect of the problem: a punishment is also useful to impress people, to make them fear the law. In fact, let's take the example of a young misfit, which has grown in a violent atmosphere, influenced by older delinquents, etc.  He lives in the streets; he's got no aim but to survive. This is the kind of person who could possibly kill someone for money, or even for fun. Why would he fear prison? Life would be easier for him there. In addition, in many cases, when you behave normally, you can benefit from penalty reductions. This young misfit needs to be impressed; he needs to know that the law is a frontier. When you cross it, you can lose your life. That is why capital punishment helps keep a distance between robbery and murder. If you abolish it, you suppress the difference between these two types of crime, which are completely different.
	But there is also a limit to define: even if the death penalty is unavoidable, it would be a crime to apply it to inadequate cases. If there is no premeditation or past facts which can justify such a punishment, it is far too strict to apply the death penalty. That is why the lawmakers have to establish precisely the context in which capital punishment car being pronounced. That is the price to pay to limit violence without using excessive violence.
	The argument about the capital punishment or death penalty is a very controversial one. Some people think that without death penalty it is impossible to retain the law and order in a country while others stand totally against the capital punishment and describe it as inhuman. Both sides have their logic to support their opinion. In my opinion, capital punishment should be only used in a situation where there is no other alternative. Otherwise, penalties rather than death should be tried to punish anyone.
	Sometimes the law and order of a country become so fragile and out of control that the Government and law enforcing agencies must show the mass people that a criminal is punished severely and other should not dare to do the same crime. In these cases, many criminals are hung till death or even send to the electronic chairs and there really left no alternative rather than that. Again there come situations even in a very peaceful society that all the people show contempt to the criminal and expect some exemplary punishment. For example, all the people expect a terrible penalty for a serial killer or a lunatic rapist. Most of these killers and criminals are severely damaged psychologically and the possibility of their being normal again is almost zero. This kind of person who has taken other people's lives and dignity should be punished with the highest penalty like death to make the society a better place to live in. Finally, those who betray with the country and compromise with the enemy with the freedom of the motherland should be hung till death in another word should be given capital punishment because of their heinous act.
	But we must consider that we cannot create a living being and we never have the right to take the lives of a living being. So if we punish even a single innocent soul with the punishment he/she does not deserve then the whole system will be corrupted. If an innocent citizen is imprisoned and proved not guilty at a later time we can at least take him/her out from the prison but what if we've already killed him/her? There would be no way to remorse and the whole law will be condemned. Moreover, if there are chances that a criminal will remorse for what he/she has done and will lead a normal and peaceful life, then he/she should be given a chance.
	Capital punishment is the process of killing the offenders for the crimes they have committed. Capital punishment was very prominent in old days but these days capital punishment is diminishing and the authorities are opting for a less barbaric way to punish the criminals. I too agree with the alternative way of punishment which is less severe than death. There are various arguments for supporting or opposing it which I will be discussing in this essay.
	Opponents of the death penalty, like me, say that capital punishment is not a solution. First of all, the human has no right to kill another human for any reason, no matter how severe the crime is. My second argument against this is some crimes are committed by mentally sick people. Those people are not responsible for their deeds. They can be put in safer hospitals for their rest of life. Moreover, it may happen that the offender has been convicted and executed wrongly. Later upon further investigation, he is proved to be innocent. We don't have any way to roll this back. Somebody might lose their precious life which is not at all acceptable. In London, a criminal was proved not guilty after 15 years; if he had been executed nobody could have done justice to his life. At last, there are various alternatives available; for instance, life sentences. These alternatives also serve the similar purpose of making criminals realise their mistakes.
	However, proponents say that criminals should be shot dead for their mistakes. Why should the government bear the expenses of criminals in the jails? The criminals should not be granted anything less than this death punishment.
	In conclusion, I don't agree and believe in this death punishment as we always have a less severe alternative available. We should avoid the capital punishment (death penalty) and try to make our society more humane one.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/251-fatherhood-ought-to-be-emphasized-as-much-as-motherhood",
Essay 1832:
	We live in a modern era where equality is being promoted everywhere including in workplaces, society and even families. This is why child-rearing should be a responsibility that is shared by both parents.
	To begin with, traditional roles of males and females are changing, and in some cases, have gone completely reversed. This is why the predefined responsibilities of mothers and fathers are a thing of the past. Traditionally, a mother takes charge of everyday activities of bringing up children, whereas a father is responsible for providing the basics for the children as well as the family. With a shifting trend when engineering universities have more female graduates and males have paternal leaves, this is no longer applicable. Rather a father should share those daily activities, spend as much time as possible with the family, play with the children, read to them, take them out or even clean their diapers, whereas capable females should share the financial responsibilities. 
	Moreover, a child needs both parents' care, love and attention to properly grow up. Research proves that attention from both parents often instils better qualities and emotional balance in them than in children who grow up without the attention of both. The concept of "fatherhood" is not easy to achieve especially in countries where economic and employment situations are stressful. However, a little effort from both parents can ensure a shared responsibility and better family bonds in which children get the proper care. 
	In conclusion, parents in modern times should be ready to share their responsibilities for the greater benefit of the child and their family. This is why fatherhood should be as much important as motherhood.
Essay 1833:
	For nine to ten months, a woman endures the drastic physiological and emotional changes that pregnancy brings about. Because of this, a woman has the greatest right to decide on whether she will have a child or not. An ideology exists that because women take full responsibility for decisions about childbearing, she also is responsible for rearing the child. I believe that this idea is absolutely faulty.
	Firstly, decisions on childbearing may be greatly affected by the woman's choice. However, other factors are also considered such as a couple's financial ability to support a child's growth. Aside from that, parenthood is a shared responsibility. A father's role is not limited to sperm donation but also includes changing diapers in the middle of the night. Also, a father should always be involved in child rearing because there are activities that are best suited to be done by a father figure, such as bringing the child to a sports event. Consequently, a child who rarely sees one's father creates a negative perception of him and may possibly create a stronger relationship with the mother alone.
	In addition, women are different in the modern era. More women are breaking the traditional view that they are confined to the four wall of the home as a housewife. Therefore, there should be a joint agreement between both parents to divide the tasks. To cite an example, a mother would send the child to school while a father will be in charge of picking up the child after class.
	In conclusion, I firmly believe that it is time to abolish the idea of putting the entire child rearing work on women. The idea of shared parenthood must be implemented to keep up with the change in family dynamics that occurred over the years.
Essay 1834:
	Of crucial importance, in my opinion, is how we define 'responsible for bringing the children up'. At its simplest, it could mean giving the financial support necessary to provide a home, food and clothes and making sure the child is safe and receives an adequate education. This would be the basic definition.
	There is, however, another possible way of defining that part of the quotation. That would say it is not just a father's responsibility to provide the basics for his children, while his wife involves herself in the everyday activity of bringing them up. Rather, he should share those daily duties, spend as much time as his job allows with his children, play with them, read to them, help directly with their education, participate very fully in their lives and encourage them to share his.
	It is this second, fuller, concept of 'fatherhood' that I am in favour of, although I also realise how difficult it is to achieve sometimes. The economic and employment situation in many countries means that jobs are getting more, not less, stressful, requiring long hours and perhaps long journeys to work as well. Therefore it may remain for many a desirable ideal rather than an achievable reality.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/250-news-editors-decide-what-to-broadcast-on-television-and-what-to-print-in-newspapers",
Essay 1835:
	Newspapers and TV channels often consider good news not so good for their business because it does not sell well. A radio station that relies on broadcasting positive news soon finds itself out of business for the lack of listeners. Newseditors' decision on the type of content to broadcast seems motivated by business goals or political biases rather than social and professional responsibilities. In this era of bad and fake news, most people are immune to bad news and it would definitely be better if the more good news was reported. 
	Though newspaper and TV stations report global events accurately, be they natural or human disasters, it is also true that their main objective is to sell newspapers and bring in more listeners and viewers to their stations and favour a particular political ideology. For that, they often use confusing news headlines and reports that have little or no value to society and are full of negativity. Since more viewers and readers are attracted to reading bad news or have political preferences, newspapers and other media often reflect the flavour of their stations by providing news and broadcasting tailor-made events to suit their listeners' and viewers' preferences.
	Since we like to read negative news or events that have spices on them, both readers, viewers and editors have to change the way they consume or create content. The professional obligations of journalists and editors, as well as our mentality as viewers and readers, could be remarkably altered if more good and positive news, reports without political biases, and true global events without fabricating them are reported. 
	In conclusion, editors need to stick to their professionalism while readers and viewers need to be more aware to make media reports more useful and reflective of our society.          
Essay 1836:
	In today’s modern world, a growing amount of news and information on television or newspapers have considerably influenced the public. Besides, what factors are impacted on reporting information on news media is an issue many people feel strongly about. This essay will discuss various influences as well as associated with phenomenon above.
	As far as I am concerned, there is a wide range of factor accounting for publishing news and broadcasts. The most noticeable, I believe, is that aiming at a high audience rating so as to maximise profits. This leads to pursuing the increasingly diverse needs of viewers from all walks of life in order to satisfy and cater to them. Another contributory factor is that for many countries, news editors have to succumb to political pressure, distorting facts and misleading the public. To put it another way, they are controlled entirely by powerful political parties and enjoined to disregard the truth. This is particularly true in many undemocratic countries like Chinese, North Korea, and Vietnam where information is seriously censored and even disseminated political ideals to guide public opinions.
	Moreover, living in the information era, people are bombarded with the daily amount of news, including good and bad news, from multiple media. Today’s coverage and press might sometimes be less trustworthy mainly because it often exaggerates the level of the real information, in order to boost the attention of the desired audiences. Furthermore, some media companies use the stories of people’s private life, seductive images and violent or obscene contents to appeal viewers, especially teenagers. It means that their thoughts and behaviours might be changed and shows a tendency to hatred, violence, jealousy, and even copycat phenomenon. However, the role of news media in reporting good news, such as someone’s achievement and human stories, should be acknowledged. That will make quicker progress toward society better.
	In conclusion, what today’s news and information on media we receive is influenced by some main factors as hooking viewers, increasing profits, and obeying political regulations. Besides, the news media can have a double-edged impact on society by the good and bad news. By doing so, we can ensure that choosing information carefully before reading and watching are indispensable to us.
Essay 1837:
	It has often been said that "Good news is bad news" because it does not sell newspapers. A radio station that once decided to present only good news soon found that it had gone out of business for lack of listeners. Bad news, on the other hand, is so common that in order to cope with it, we often simply ignore it. We have become immune to bad news and the newspapers and radio stations are aware of this.
	While newspapers and TV stations may aim to report world events accurately, be they natural or human disasters, political events or the horrors of war, it is also true that their main objective is to sell newspapers and attract listeners and viewers to their stations. For this reason, TV and radio stations attempt to reflect the flavour of their station by providing news broadcasts tailor-made to suit their listeners' preferences. Program specialising in pop music or TV soap operas focus more on local news, home issues and up-to-date traffic reports. The more serious stations and newspapers like to provide "so-called" objective news reports with the editorial comment aimed at analysing the situation.
	If it is true, then, that newspapers and TV stations are tailoring their news to their readers' and viewers' requirements how can they possibly be reporting real world events in an honest and objective light? Many radio and TV stations do; in fact, report items of good news but they no longer call this news. They refer to these as human interest stories and package them in the program specialising, for instance, in consumer affairs or local issues. Good news now comes to us in the form of documentaries the fight against children cancer or AIDS, or the latest developments in the fight to save the planet from environmental pollution.
	(Approximately 300 words)
	News both in print media and in television should reflect the authentic, unbiased and important news for the audiences and that news play an important role in terms of educating people, informing people about the current world and giving them an insight of political and social view. But sadly this is always not the case and news editors are often broadcast and publish biased and politically influenced news that does more harm than good to the society.
	There are various reasons for that. First of all the personal views and political biasedness are two important factors that cause this problem. Newspapers and TV news should ideally be two great media to reach the people with the real and authentic news. People greatly rely on these media to get updates on events and current affairs and the impartial and biased news misleads them often. Often political views of editors and their link to a particular political party lead to this problem. It is not uncommon that a chief editor gets appointed to the position by the powerful political party and he is expected to present news in favour of this party. Second, in many countries government impose strict rules on what type of news can be presented to the public and that also causes problems in terms of fair and accurate news presenting.   In many cases, money and corruption are involved for such heinous act. Again, many newspapers heavily rely on other renowned newspapers and internet for current news and if the source is corrupted, that leads to the case of printing and broadcasting impartial and misleading news. The personal threat, political reasons, power, greed, pressure and personal gains, business are the main reasons editors sometimes decide what to broadcast and what to print.
	In conclusion, we are not used to the bad news and editors do decide which news to be reached to the public or not based on their personal, business and political reasons.
Essay 1838:
	At the present time, editors decide what kind of news should be shown on television and what kind of news should be printed in newspapers and magazines. It doesn’t matter for them what sort of news, bad or good, their sole wish to make sensation even from bad news. Therefore, there is a lot of bad news which became popular and they have an impact on people. Maybe we have to announce only good news and hide bad ones.
	If we look at today’s world, news sources like newspapers, magazines, television news etc. play very important role in our society. These sources give us information about the world. Firstly it's noticeable that you can see all types of information on TV or newspaper, beginning with the opening of new car factories and culminating with disasters. But you can’t decide what kind of news you want to read on your morning routine, it is decided by the news editors. They will choose which news to publish.
	Secondly, editors need your attention so they publish the most interesting news, like Death of Laden or flood in Japan. Thus, people made familiar with that kind of news. In addition, news has the big influence on people, one bad news can affect thousands of people and the same if it would be a good one. To sum up, although some people believe that only good news should be shown or published, in my view, everybody has to know what’s going on in the world and must feel the reality of the life.
Essay 1839:
	It is true that the decision of news editor is the final judgment of the news report, which is broadcasted to our media like television and newspaper. This is certainly true that there are a number of factors that always affect to adopt these decisions. However, it can be argued that good news may bring peace and happiness of a nation.
	There are several factors that act as a precursor of the news editor that influence them to take decisions what to broadcast or print to their media. Firstly, perhaps most news editors want to increase the selling of their newspapers in order to rapidly rise up their profit. Secondly, popularity and true news are other significant factors, which influence the news editors to make a decision. Finally, some news editors of developing countries are affected by the political governments to take a decision about their news report.
	Recently, we see that many newspapers and televisions channels are publishing bad news. For example, many media, NTV and BTV in particular in Bangladesh, are always broadcasting about the lifestyle of celebrities, which is neither informative nor important. Moreover, this type of news spoils the life of an adult person. If the media provides good news such as educational, scientific and so on, these can motivate the younger to achieve more knowledge. This could result in the immense advantage of a nation.
	In conclusion, while news editors are inspired by the several factors to make a decision about a news report, it can be argued that good news is more indispensable than bad news. Therefore, news editor should broadcast and print such type of news, which can bring many benefits to the human being.
Essay 1840:
	The news editors are among the most elite and affluent classes of the present-day society. It is them, who decide what to telecast or publish in mass media like television channels and newspapers. Now, moot questions pertaining to this, focus on sources of shoddy influences on these spokespersons of one’s society? Is the public constantly being tuned to watch controversies or mishappenings around the world? What would it be to experience watching news that is of better quality? Let us discourse on this below.
	The factors that influence news editors are many: the channel management, the politicians and other social magnets of the society, forming the tip of the iceberg. Firstly, the channel CEOs nowadays are behind exclusives that could profit them or generate TRP (Television Rating Point) of the channel. They are least bothered about the value, norms and its impact on public. Secondly, the politicians from a real source of carnage, by pressurising channel editors to censor the news as per their will. This renders the news half boiled or malformed at our dining tables. Finally, the business tycoons of one’s society play an imperative role influencing the mass media with their money power.
	It is a general concern on mass that the present society is witnessing and is exposed to bad news than the good ones. One major reason behind this charade is that low quality or so-called "bad news" are mostly controversial. Media controversy is generally considered to boost viewership. Hence, the channel heads who are predominantly business oriented deliberately flash these bad news, keeping aside the good ones. To cite an example, India recently experienced the news on the demise of Indian president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, immersed in Indian media against a controversial communal debate that was happening at the same time.
	Good news is to be reported on a more frequent basis for the betterment of the society, overcoming the biases and political influences. In this media driven world, channels and newspapers play a vital role in influencing the general public. The recusant impact that these bad news can have on the mushrooming young minds, should be combated.
	To conclude, I would like to opine that news should be graded and treated on its value and social merit, and not TRPs or the evil influences of society.
Essay 1841:
	This is the news caster's duty whether to broadcast or print any particular news. There are various factors behind these decisions. Although people are seriously disturbed by watching the bad news, I believe that there should be a balance between bad and good news.
	There are numbers of factors from which news editors seemed to be influenced prior to deciding the type of information to be placed as news. Firstly, news corporations are much more obsessed with popularity, competency and profitability amongst their news agencies counterparts. Because, before they are able to earn a stupendous amount of money, they would have to be competitive in the news market. This is the reason why they sometimes tend to show the most drastic, exaggerating and spicy news in order to attract more audiences. Secondly, there are a huge variety of elite industries that are willing to sponsor news agencies .In this way, news editors may have to present the biased, and impartial information solely to promote the attractive reputation of these high-profile industries. Finally, some news firms are perhaps politically, religiously or culturally prejudiced just to make extravagant money.
	It is deniable that bad news does not have any negative impact on people's lives. Most of the time people are being bombarded with the vulnerable news. This has led to a greater level of depression, anxiety, phobia and uncertainty in many people. Also, I tend to believe that news publishers should not be thinking too short-sighted. Rather they should put a greater emphasis on broadcasting the truth and reality as well as maintaining the balance between devastating news and good news. It would be a lot more productive for the nations if they are informed of good news such as improvements in health or scientific matters or any new invention on top of getting the truth about critical global or local matters equally.
	In conclusion, people cannot become immune to the bad news. While there are some crucial factors involved in making news, I would argue that news editors should maintain the balance between both types of news before presenting to the nation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/207-television-is-a-very-useful-tool-when-it-comes-to-education",
Essay 1842:
	There is a lot of controversy on the topic whether TV can play a role of a teacher. Some people hold a viewpoint that it can never be educational at all. Others, although, disagree, referring to TV's high potential of teaching through amusement.
	As a matter of fact, television nowadays can hardly be called educational. All those talk shows and soap operas we see every day are a complete waste of time and can even have negative effects by distracting young and undisciplined people from their studies. Moreover, the most of the so-called educational programs in channels like National Geographic channel can not replace books and academic lectures because they tend to entertain people and have not an aim to give deep and concentrated knowledge.
	However, TV can be a powerful mean of delivering information and a nice part of learning process. Educational Methodists have proved that the more senses are involved at the time of studying; the more effective result can be achieved. Television produces both picture and sound, so its usefulness is obvious. Many teachers already use this advantage actively by showing students video cassettes which go as supplementary material to many language courses. So why not to broadcast such movies through television?
	The problem of the ineffectiveness of television as an educational tool is in fact not a problem of television itself, but of people who decide the content of the particular channel. It is hardly unlikely that content directors would abandon their high profits and change talk shows to lectures and video lessons. Therefore, those, who insist on the uselessness of TV, maybe right, but let us not forget that as technology improves new cheap ways of broadcasting appear, for instance, video broadcasts. They can prove the exclusive power of such learning tool as television.
	People are divided in opinion if television is a great source of education and knowledge or not. Both of these two groups have their reasoning and logic. In this essay, I will discuss both the viewpoint to represent the effectiveness and drawbacks of TV as the source of education.
	To mention the disadvantages, television channels are too much commercial nowadays and they would produce any program to attract people no matter if they are authentic or not. There are plenty of choices for channels and people tend to use their TV as an entertainment media than an educational source. The biased news, politically influenced talk show etc. often mislead people and that has a very negative impact on the society. Programs that contain violence, the negative impression often distracts young people and the addiction on TV programs often restrain people from doing other important activities. TV is a great source of knowledge sharing but the programs choice must be prudent to learn something from it and most of the people fail to do so.
	On the other hand, there are lots of advantages of TV according to a group and these advantages supersede the disadvantages as they opine. There are always options for a TV viewer and if s/he takes it as a medium of educational sources, the can always do so. It is an effective medium for updating people about the current news, different viewpoints and current affairs. People no longer need to travel a great deal to learn about other countries and it is TV that actually made it possible. Channels like Discovery, National Geography have been successfully broadcasting education channels and they are hugely popular around the globe. This is a strong tool for a government to communicate with mass people to deliver a message. After a stressful day at work people often find it refreshing to watch music, movies, soap opera, reality shows, travel shows at their homes and there is no argument that those things have their educational references well rooted into.
	In conclusion, TV can be a great source for education if properly and prudently watched and also can be a negative factor for some people if their program choice is somehow negative.  
Essay 1843:
	With the popularisation of high-end television being introduced to people, the functions of it have significantly influenced the public regardless of the extent. Some people think it is an effective as well as an entertaining device to educate, while others dispute that it has been abused and cannot play a key role in teaching.
	People’s reactions have been affected dramatically due to the contents are shown on television. For the teenagers, the impact can last for a very long time, sometimes even forever.  Nowadays, the coverage about juvenile delinquencies has been noticed frequently and parts of it are caused by the violent contents or extreme thoughts shown on TV whose original purposes should be entertaining and educating. Also, not only have young people been affected, some adults also became victims of television. The TV shows currently being shown are sometimes compelled to put on schedule due to the pressures exerted by sponsors. They want to boost the rating rather than entertaining the audiences. However, some shows are extremely long and they oblige the audiences to keep watching. As a result of it, audiences forget their works and get idle, sitting on the couch and staring at the meaningless TV shows regardless of the length of them. Furthermore, for increasing the profits, different companies put exaggerated commercials on TV and encourage consumers to try their products. Although some of them may really satisfy customers’ need, others only want to promote their products to the public. If the people sitting in front of the TV had no ability on self-control, especially for shopping, they would dial the numbers displayed on the screen as soon as possible.
	On the other hand, not all the programmes are educational; especially the ones are specifically designed for little kids. They can learn the basic communication skills by watching cartoons. In addition, they can learn how moral code is essential while their parents have not adequate time teaching them. Television programs are sometimes politically biased and can mislead people. News presented incorrectly can harm some people and can mislead others. TV programs are becoming more commercial now a day rather than their original purpose of education and entertainment.
	In conclusion, television is showing public the downward trend in terms of the contents. The main purposes have shifted from education to misleading even instigation in some cases. In my opinion, authorities should censor the programmes exigent before they are shown to the public.
Essay 1844:
	Nowadays, television has become an essential necessity in most homes. While some people think that television serves as an efficient tool to enhance learning, others are of the opinion that this is ineffective. This essay will discuss both points of view.
	To begin, television in isolation may not be too effective as a learning aid. This is because there might not be programs that are specific to what people want to learn. For example, if a person is interested in learning the construction and function of an automotive engine, it would not be possible for him to get a program scheduled as per his requirement.  Further, even with those programs appearing on television, the viewer might not necessarily get the complete content and depth of understanding that he is looking for. Thus, television has limitations with regards to the customization it can offer to different people with varying learning requirements.
	Nevertheless, in my opinion, television does provide considerable opportunities for people who are looking to improve their overall general awareness as well as looking for subject- specific information. For example, viewers can check the program content online on different channels and tune into programs that are of their interest. Further, they can purchase CD's on topics of their specific need and watch them on television to gain a better understanding. The viewer has a choice to select a CD that offers him the required depth of understanding of the subject. Watching the content on a 40-inch television may keep viewers more engrossed and interested, and give them a better learning experience than looking at the content on a laptop/computer.
	Additionally, programs on channels like National geographic and Discovery are quite exhaustive and provide vital information to viewers. For example, the program on analysis of aircraft disasters can actually teach viewers/students the right approach to be followed in carrying out failure investigations and performing root cause analysis.
	To conclude, people being dismissive of the role of television in education is not entirely correct. To a large extent its importance as a learning aid will lie with the user and the way it is utilised. Television can certainly be an efficient tool to aid learning and enhance the overall quality of education if the right approach is adopted.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/206-universities-should-accept-equal-numbers-of-male-and-female-students",
Essay 1845:
	There is an old saying - 'Give me an educated mother and I will give you an educated nation'. This prover emphasises the women education. Throughout the history men and women both worked together to build a better world and whatever stage the current world is in, that has been contributed both by male and female - surely not by one gender. As university education is so important for the full bloom of one person's merit, skill and knowledge, equal opportunity for both male and female students should be ensured.
	To begin with, if only men go ahead in education, research, arts, history and women stay home, then no good can be done. The history suggests that men are dominant in numbers in science, arts, engineering, creativity and business sectors. But we cannot deny the contribution of Mother Teresa and Madam Merry Currie who have devoted their whole life to the betterment of the world. It is true that if the competition is arranged regardless of gender, more male students will be ahead of women. But still, universities should accept an equal number of students. If fewer females hold the important sectors of a country, naturally women will feel deprived and this will lead them to compete with men.
	It is a mother who is much more emotionally attached to their children and friendlier to children than fathers. So they help the children in their study. So the importance of female education in the higher level should get a priority considering this single issue.
	In conclusion, universities should accept the same number of students from both sexes and give an equal opportunity at every level.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/205-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-21-the-overuse-of-natural-resources-causes-an-ultimate-exhaust-of-them",
Essay 1846:
	In our life, we use the natural resources in many different ways and in fact natural resources are vital for our existences. Our lives will simply become impossible if we stop using natural resources. But it is a matter of pity that the way we overuse those resources. The existing natural resources are limited and the demand and consumption are increasing day by day as the world population is increasing. As a result, natural resources are rather being reduced with the increased and imprudent uses. We must control the overuse of these priceless resources for our own survival
	The population and their demand are increasing and with technological improvements the natural resources are being used more than any other time in the human history. We use those to meet our daily and vital needs. For instance, we use natural gas to cook food. But the natural resources like fuels and gas are also used to fulfil our luxury. In fact, the mass people will try to use natural resources to adopt new fashions and changing demands. People changes their furniture models, car models so frequently and it has become a symbol of their prominence. Thus they use natural resources like wood and fuel so unwisely and in my opinion, this is quite unnecessary.
	The government of a country sworn to look after the betterment of the countrymen. People are unaware of the aftereffects of this overuse. So the government has to play a vital role by sending the message to the mass population and by taking necessary initiatives to prevent this overuse of the natural resources. However, we all should understand the issue and should take part to prevent the overuse of our natural resources. The government can not stop such a bad trend all alone. Making new furniture is a right to a citizen and Government can not stop this by enforcing laws only. The citizen must be conscious about the devastating aftereffects.
	In conclusion, I personally believe that the Government should be strict and discourage the mass people overusing natural resources. In addition, a comprehensive effort by all is needed to make the steps taken by the Government successful.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/204-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-20-not-everything-that-is-learned-is-contained-in-books",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/203-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-19-a-company-has-announced-that-it-wishes-to-build-a-large-factory-near-your-locality",
Essay 1847:
	To meet the demand of increasing population large companies, factories, etc are growing faster than any other past time. New factory means new job opportunity. Again, a new factory means more pollutions and a new threat to the environment. In the whole, new factories bring good opportunities to a community but the risk it creates by increasing the environment pollution is too much. In my opinion, the benefits of having a factory near my community are out-weighted by the risks. That is why I strongly oppose the establishment of a new factory near my community.
	It is true that a new factory offers many positive things to the people. For example, a new factory creates lots of job vacancies as well as many potential employment opportunities. It also creates small business opportunities surrounded the factory. The authority of the factory improves the transportation and communication systems of the area. It is often observed that a locality having a large factory or industry offers better economic freedom than an ordinary urban area.
	But I believe, people of my locality are happy with their current economic condition. My community is a beautiful and calm area with almost ignorable pollution. My community would be harmed by a large factory. In particular, the factory will destroy the calm and neat environment as well as will increase the air, water and sound pollution. In the long run, the environment will be seriously hurt and people's health will be affected. Again the newly created factory will make the community crowded. To accommodate more workers more homes will be needed. I don't want to see too many cheaply constructed townhomes in my locality.
	(This model answer has been prepared by the site developer. However, please note that this is just one example out of many possible answers.)
	Essay Type: Advantages & Disadvantages + You opinion. 
	People have argued about the plan of building a factory near the residential area. Some people think that it will bring many benefits for the local society, while others believe that it will have a negative effect on the environment. The following essay will discuss in details about the advantages and disadvantages of it.
	On the one hand, it is true that building a new factory near the local residential area will bring a lot of benefits for many parties. Firstly, it will generate a lot of job opportunities for the local people. It is common that a factory will absorb many employments, and for efficiency, it will give priority in hiring the local people. Secondly, the plan will boost the economic development of its' surrounding area. Many investors will build mini market, gas station or restaurant as many of the factory's workers will seek these commercial places. As a result, it will positively affect the real estate business of the surrounding area as well.
	On the other hand, it is undeniable that the plan could also bring negative effects to the society and to the environment. It is a fact that many factories are generating wastes and they could create harmful effects to the local environment. For example, the waste water from the factory might be directly flown into the local river and contaminated the surrounding environment. And then, the factory might also generate some smokes which might be a treat for the local people. These people might have some serious respiration problems due to inhaling the polluted air. Therefore there should be a clear regulation and strict monitoring over it in the future.
	In conclusion, it is a fact that the plan of building a factory near a residential area will create some pros and cons. In my opinion, I do believe that the positive sides of the plan outweigh the negatives, as long as the plan follows the government regulation and it is clearly monitored by the authority.
	From the very beginning of the modern society concept human have structured the community in such a way where the commercial and industrial areas are separated from the residential area. Even after so many new concepts around residential buildings and modern cities, the basic concept of separating the industrial area from the residential area has remained strong among the city architects and its adoption has been worldwide. So, I would absolutely refute the idea of having a large factory near my community as it would have lots of negative effects. To support my opinion I would consider reasons like pollutions and disturbance to the calm ambience of the entire surrounding.
	Factories manufacture and process different types of goods including electronics and chemical goods. While it generates employment and revenue, it also pollutes the environment. A large factory can be responsible for high noise pollution, water pollution and air pollution. Water pollution can contaminate the hydra resulting in health problems to the people of the society. Air pollution can annoy the residents who look forward to a serene society at the end of a tiring day. It will also adversely affect the children by exposing them to the polluted air thrown out by the factory. As a result, children will have to stop playing at the playgrounds in the society and their mental and physical growth would be hampered. Thus, pollution is the last thing the people of the society would prefer to deal with, in their day-to-day life.
	My society is located at a very neat and calm location. Having a large factory near the society would result into disturbing the peaceful environment near our locality. The society offers a nice park alongside a small lake which is used by elderly, exercise enthusiasts and animals daily to freshen up and enjoy the natural bliss. With the advent of a factory in the area could lead to spoiling the ambience of the park and the locality. To add to the sufferings, factories would also increase the traffic in the locality. An increase in traffic means more time on commute resulting in more stress for an individual.
	To conclude, I would say that large factories do have advantages like more employment and more revenue but it should not impact the residential areas. The factories should be built outside the residential zone thus not disturbing the people living nearby. Thus, I would recommend having the factories out of the city in the factory zone to realise its real unadulterated benefits.
	(This model answer was submitted by Deep Kagda)
	Since the inception of civilisation, industrialisation has been a paramount requirement of growth around the world. In fact, every government has ratified certain sets of rules for establishing industries along with relevant departments to look after the policies' compliance. Like any other process industrialisation too has pros and cons, and subsequently, people have been debating over the appropriateness and formulating ways to curb its repercussions over denizens.
	Firstly, institutionalising factories brings a lot of benefits for local communities. First of all, most industries require huge skilled workforce and thus, these crops up a lot of exciting and rewarding employment opportunities. This has profound positive effects on the upliftment of life standards of citizens as it accelerates the per capita income and the GDP. Apparently, successful industrialisation also spurs foreign investment. For example- the establishment of Tata Group in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand in 1909 helped the region to stride and today the region is one of the most developed regions in the country. Secondly, there are many other indirect benefits too. Any industry just does not create direct job opportunities for the people who work inside the company's premises; it also presents some jobs to people who are not qualified to work inside the company. For example, in any enterprise, we find many indirect housekeeping and canteen workers.
	On the other hand, industrialisation has some minor and few potential issues too. First of all, many industries require a large piece of land and generally, it is acquired by deforestation or seizing fertile farmland. Also, companies' waste materials are generally hazardous and pollute the neighbouring environment. This leads to diseases, allergies and sometimes even epidemics. In most of the cases, the direct employees are under the highest threat. Also, the awry effects of local ecosystems cannot be ignored. Moreover, the life risk of industrial accidents over local lives cannot be disregarded. For example, today, every country is reeling under the side effects of Global Warming, a phenomenon whose onset is contributed to the discharge industrialisation waste into natural resources like water, air etc., which defines the rising temperature around the world and causing climate changes. Apparently, the proper treatment of industrial waste is a worldwide challenge.
	In my opinion, industrialisation is necessary for growth, but it must be regulated. The proper measures must be in place to reduce the negative impacts of byproducts on the environment. This can be ensured by enacting strict laws to mandate the proper treatment of hazardous wastes before their discharge. On the other hand, to tackle problems like deforestation, companies must plant a certain number of trees depending upon the intensity of deforestation.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/202-discuss-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-having-a-car",
Essay 1848:
	In our lives, we travel from one place to another for a great variety of reasons and while travelling we greatly depend on cars, whether it is a private car or a public bus. The number of car owners is increasing every day because every person expects the freedom to travel and comfort while travelling. And that is why most of us want to own a car. However owning a car have many advantages and disadvantages as well.
	The main advantage of owning a car is it gives the freedom to travel. If you have a car then you don't need to be limited to fixed routes and timetables. Moreover, a car-owner can take is/her family members with him/her and other necessary goods whenever he/she wish which might have been impossible otherwise. In addition, personal cars give comfort while travelling on the contrary to the public buses which are so crowded and disgusting. You can read books, listen to music or even can play with kids while you are in your own car but those all seem to be impossible in public transport. On the contrary, owning a car is very expensive. The price of the car, the cost of the tax, insurance cost, fuel cost, driver's salary, car repairing etc. all must be considered before buying a car and that is why it is out of reach of the middle-class people.
	Moreover, private cars can not carry many passengers at a time yet occupy spaces in the street. As the number of cars is increasing in the road so does the traffic jam. Perhaps the major disadvantage of cars, in general, is the huge damage they do to human health and to the environment. More cars mean more pollution. The environment pollution is a serious issue today and at any cost, we must reduce the amount of pollution and if we consider it then owning a car is never a good idea.
	To sum up, having a car gives someone freedom but if the public transportation system is easily accessible, safe and efficient, then the idea of buying and owning a car should be abandoned.  
	Owning a car is a birth-right for some people while other people try their life-long to purchase one. Apart from these two groups, there are certain people who do not dare to even think about purchasing a car because of their miserable economic conditions. However, for all those people the four-wheel car is a fancy machine with advantages and utility. Owning a car can also bring some drawbacks.
	Among the advantages of owning a car, in my opinion, freedom of travelling is the most important one. Someone who owns a car can plan his route, timing and destination. He won’t have to wait for the schedule of a public bus, stand in a long queue, wait for hours for the bus to arrive, and sit in the public bus uncomfortably. A person car gives the freedom, saves time and the owner can utilise the time while he travels. Apart from that, he can carry the grocery, goods and other valuables in the car at his discretion. Owning a car also offers the flexibility of visiting relatives and friends who stay far away without much hassle of a public bus. Taking a child or an old person in a public bus is quite impossible and owning a car would facilitate someone to take his kid, old relatives with him if needed. The comfort and safety of a private car can’t be achieved in a public car. In terms of expense, sometimes personal car saves monthly expenses that would otherwise be required for a person if he travels frequently. 
	On the other hand owning a car has some disadvantages as well. First of all, private cars require garage and parking hassle. Sometimes the expenses on hiring a driver and purchasing fuel might exceed the budget for the people who could have easily availed public transportations for infrequent journeys. The traffic issue, paper renewal issue, tax, police cases are sometimes too much to handle for the personal car owners. For example, if a public bus gets busted in the middle of a road, the passenger can easily leave it a look for another one. But in this same situation, a private car owner who was riding in his car would have to take the burden of taking care of the busted car and reach to the automobile repairing centres.
	In summary, though owning a car has some disadvantages, it offers many advantages as well.
Essay 1849:
	People need different modes of transportation to move from one place to another. In the ancient time, they used horses and donkeys for this purpose and to carry their loads. With  the development of technology, people invented novel things such as cars, trains, aeroplanes, ships and this development has further enhanced the flexibility and convenience of transportation. Out of these vehicles, the private car is one of the best and most preferred vehicles for people to commute from one place to another but not without consequences.  
	Private cars have many advantages. Due to this, people who can afford a private car, want to own it. People with low-income class also dream to own a car one day. This simple phenomenon shows how advantageous of owning a private car can be. With a private car, people can plan their own journey, go somewhere whenever they want, take diversions to avoid bad traffic, avoid long queue for ticketing and enjoy the utmost flexibility and privacy of a soothing journey. This is a very handy thing in the emergency cases. For example, when someone gets sick, his family members can easily take him to a hospital regardless of the time. Finally, owning a private car offers someone the freedom to enjoy his time during the journey while it is quite impossible on a public bus.    
	On the contrary, private car ownership has many demerits as well. It is far more expensive than public transportation. The cost of  fuel, driver, licence, insurance, maintenance, repairing etc. will often increase the monthly expense for a family. Furthermore, those cars produce toxic gas such as greenhouse gases, CO2 and CO that are harmful to the human health and the environment. Private cars are the main reason for congestion on the roads and the increasing environmental pollution.  
	To some up, I think the private car is a very useful vehicle that offers more advantages than demerits to its owner. However, the environmental issues due to excessive use of cars should not be ignored and we should use private cars absolutely when it is necessary and at other times, we should use public transportations.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/201-compare-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-three-media-for-communicating-information",
Essay 1850:
	In our daily life, we communicate information through lots of different media like the internet, televisions, radios, books, cell phones, films etc. We are living in such a time when information is one of the most important issues and the information technologies as well as the communication media greatly influence our lives. The rapid-growing websites and TV channels are many of few little examples how media are spreading to make information easily accessible. All the media for information interchange have advantages and disadvantages and not all can attract all types of audiences. Comics, books, radios, televisions, film and theatre are all very powerful media for communicating information. In my opinion books, televisions and film among those aforementioned six media are most effective.
	Books are the witness of history and the main source from which we gain knowledge. From a very ancient period till now, books have been working as the light-house for our society. In our childhood, we gather most of our knowledge and skills from books. It opens new horizons in front of us. The writer writes down their experiences, imaginations, knowledge, explanation etc. about each and every issue of our lives. Books are the long-lasting protocol to make a bridge among writers and readers.
	However, all are not happy to read books. They expect something easier and more vivid. Music, radios, films etc. are more appealing to them. Television is another powerful media. Watching television is a part of our daily lives. Most of the people who have a TV set, watch programs, news etc. with apt attention. It is a strong medium for Government and other organisations to send their messages to the mass population. Program representatives also broadcast the people's view and opinions about different controversial issues in TV programs. However, this medium has lots of demerits and bad impacts. Government and politically biased organisations often send negative and misleading news. Again young people watch different satellite channels and try to adopt the alien culture which is really harmful for the culture and tradition of a country.
	Films are an audio-visual representation and can catch the attention of people from different geographical locations, races and cultures. A good film can shape someone's morality and doctrine and the film-makers with their huge amount of money, are so careful to make their films realistic and eye-absorbing. Every film has a direct or potential message or moral. On the contrary, some films also bring a wrong message to us. For example, protagonists are always smoking in the films and it seems that smoking is a good and smart habit. It causes many younger people imitate them smoking.
	In conclusion, I would like to state that books, televisions and films are the most powerful and effective medias for communicating information.
Essay 1851:
	Communication media plays a vital role in today’s world. It enables us to stay informed of the happenings in the entire world, provides access to real-time information, and entertains us. There are different kinds of media in use today, namely comics, books, radio, television, film, theatre etc. out of these, the most effective are the television, radio and books.
	Television, or TV for short, is an electronic device that enables us to see and listen at the same time to an act that has been recorded. These can be replayed any number of times. News on a TV enables us to view the current events occurring in different parts of the world. Video of an event can be telecasted live as it happens through remote satellite links. A TV can also be a source of education and entertainment. Educational channels, such as Discovery channel, telecast several interesting programs on topics such as wildlife or solar system. Other channels, such as Star movies, telecast movies throughout the day.
	Books are the one of the oldest kind of communication medium. A book typically consists of several pages, made from wood pulp bound together. A book is typically identified by a title and an author, and optionally an ISBN number which identifies a book uniquely. A book usually contains a material on a given topic, divided by sub-topics in form of chapters. Books are often classified by genre, which is a theme in which the topic can be classified. Examples of genres include fiction, non-fiction, science fiction, mystery etc.
	Of all the communication media available today, television, radio and books are the most important and effective ones. These are also the most commonly used media in the world today and they are responsible for binding the world together.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/200-we-are-becoming-increasingly-dependent-on-computers",
Essay 1852:
	Today, the computer has become an indispensable tool in our day-to-day activities. In fact, we find it very difficult to get through a working day without it. In this essay, we will discuss the usage of computers in the foreseeable future. Also, we will analyse how this dependency will have negative impacts on the society.
	To begin with, computers can be used in performing daily chores at the house. For instance, cleaning of the home can be done with the minimum effort and time with the advent of robot maids. In addition, teachers can use computers for teaching their students by staying at their own place. In other words, tutors can arrange multiple classes in different cities at the same time by the help of this tool. Thus, it is obvious that the computer can be used in household work as well as for teaching purpose in the coming future.
	However, inordinate usage of this tool has many disadvantages. First of all, human beings will be replaced by this machine leading to the increase in the unemployment which is intrinsically tied to the rate of the crime within the nation. Furthermore, the absence of physical presence of teachers in the classroom can raise the problems of discipline within the students. In other words, social development of these pupils will be harmed and thereby, will cause a hindrance in the nation's social growth.
	From above, it can be seen that computers will be used for various activities at home as well as at educational institutions in the future. But, excessive utilisation of this machine can boost the issues related to job causing rise in the crime and afflict the young people's development. It is thus hoped that people will be made aware of the harmfulness of relying too much on computers.
Essay 1853:
	Computers are relatively new invention. The first computers were built seventy years ago and it is the last forty years or so that their influences has affected our everyday life. Personal computers were introduced as recently as the early eighties. In this short time, they have made a tremendous impact on our lives. We are now so dependent on computers that it is hard to imagine what things would be without them. You have only got to go into a bank when their main computer is broken to appreciate the chaos that would occur if computers were suddenly removed worldwide.
	In the future, computers will be used to create bigger and even more sophisticated computers. The prospects for this are quite alarming. They will be so complex that no individual could hope to understand how they work. They will bring a lot of benefits but hey will also increase the potential for unimaginable chaos. They will, for example, be able to fly planes and they will be able to co-ordinate the movements of several planes in the vicinity of an airport. Providing all the computers are working correctly nothing can go wrong, but if one small program fails--disaster.
	There is a certain inevitability that technology will progress and become increasingly complex. We should, however, ensure that we are still in a position where we can control the technology. It will be too easy to suddenly discover that technology is controlling us. By then it might be too late. I believe that it is very important to be suspicious of the benefits that computers will bring and to make sure that we never become totally dependent on a completely technological world.
Essay 1854:
	Computers are relatively new invention and it's been only 50 years or so when the first computer was evolved and till then computers have become an inevitable part of our life and we cannot think even a single day without the uses of computers. From a small departmental shop to a large corporate business, from traffic signal controlling to launching rockets, the computer is a must. Again hospitals, offices, defence & intelligent departments, educational institutes use computers at every level of their work and service. To understand that, we will just have to go to a bank, where account holders' information and other financial figures are kept on a server computer. If anything goes wrong with the server computer, the result is overwhelming and devastating. Similarly, in a hospital where all data and medical records are stored in computers and even these computers are used to do many intricate operations. Any error with the computers can affect lots of human lives. It seems that computers are a very vital part of the current world and as the speed and capability of computers increasing day by day, we are becoming more dependent. From personal entertainment to collecting outer-space data, from traffic controlling to DNA research, computers are the main tools to depend on.
	In the future, researchers will use computers and the Artificial Intelligence to bring out the result from most of the research. Human will try to gather more data on outer world and the computer systems and computer controlled machines will be used to find a suitable alternative for the world to live in. Scientists will invade inner-sea environment for more resources. The education system will be mostly dependent on computers. As Artificial Intelligence will improve in future, so will the robotics to replace humans by computers to do most of the jobs. Lie detectors and DNA testing system will be flawless and the criminal investigating departments will use the computers to find the clues of any crime. Satellite communications and internet would be a part of our lives and all the present communication systems like fax, mail or telegram will be just history for the next coming generation. Most people will read from a computer screen and will write through a keyboard or voice recognition systems. In short, Computer will be used in almost all levels of life from playing video games till digital cyber war in future.
	Throughout the history, human always invented and still trying to invent new tools and machines to make our lives more secure and easy. But no other single device or tool had been so influential like the computer. Day by day we're becoming more and more dependent upon computers. In my opinion, we cannot stop using computers or even we can't lessen the uses of computers. The development of technology will follow its own track no matter what we think about it. Dependency is necessary but too much of it can be malevolent for the whole human race when it comes in term of computers. So we must make sure that we are controlling machines, not the machines controlling us. We don't want a scenario like the famous Hollywood movie "Terminator", where human fighting for their existence against their own created machines.  
Essay 1855:
	Usage of computers at a hospital is vital because it helps the hospital management to keep track of every patient's medical history. Also, computers are used in Electrocardiogram test, Echo test and in many other tests which save millions of lives. Moreover, this cutting-edge technology is also used in many sports like cricket, football and tennis. For example, in cricket, Hawk-eye technology is used to find No-ball and leg-bye wickets.
	Furthermore, without computers, it would have been impossible for us to find the presence of water on the moon. Consider satellite- it plays a humongous role in Telecommunication and without it human kind cannot think of communicating with overseas friends or relatives. My cousin is just six years old, but she is watching videos in YouTube on her own, which implies that computers attract younger generations. Though this advent in "state of the art" technology has many advantages, it also has few disadvantages. Nowadays, children are browsing adult contents on the internet which will surely spoil them. Due to much advancement in technology, it makes a person lazy which is the potential cause of obesity, diabetes and many such diseases.
	In spite of having few disadvantages, dependency on computers is more appreciable but it should be in limits. There should be an equilibrium between science and nature.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/199-people-remember-special-gifts-or-presents-they-receive",
Essay 1856:
	First of all, a gift, no matter what it is, is always special when it is given by a very dear person. Gift received from parents or children on special occasions are cherished by most of us. In this case, the cordiality and attachment it more important that the gift itself. For instance, many people treasure the gift they receive from a lover, friend, father, mother or a special person for a long time. The gift I got from my father on my 12th birthday was merely a diary and that I still consider a very special gift for me. This special gift reminds me my childhood and the love of my father and that’s why I will always remember it.
	Second, people often wish for certain things which are they usually can’t buy and if such a present is given someone, it is likely that he will remember it for a long. For instance, when my uncle purchased me a laptop when I was around 18 years old, I was very excited and I will never forget the gift. Sometimes the surprise gifts are memorable and become special to some persons. For instance, the gift I gave to my college on his birthday became one of the special gifts for him as he later expressed. Thus these sorts of special gifts remind us the goodwill and love we actually receive from that person.
	Third, expensive gifts often surprise people and can become their special gift. If a car is bought to someone which he would not be able to afford is ought to become a special gift as well. It is common human phycology that they would remember such gifts for a long.
	Finally, the memory related to a gift is the most important factor for a special gift. The small gift given by a father who is no more with the children would definitely become a valuable gift to that son/daughter. With time the gift might get lost or broken or even useless but the memory remains and thus the memory involved with a gift is an important factor and that’s why people would remember the gift.
	First of all, I believe that people remember special gifts because they were from very close and dear people. For example, I remember my parents gave me a ring when I was sixteen years old. It was not an expensive ring but it was very valuable for me and when I left my home and moved to another city, I often looked at that ring and felt like my parents were somewhere near me. I felt their support, care, love and understanding. It is like people who are close to us give their small parts of their souls with that gift. They want us to remember them and they want to make us happy. Gifts sometimes remind us the memory of a certain time. For example, if a child gets a toy at an early age and if he sees it when he grows older, it reminds him about the childhood. Besides, special gifts always remind us the caring and love of the person who gave it. These gifts are very valuable for people of all countries and nationalities.
	Another reason why people remember special gifts because they were exactly what people wanted to have for a long time, but for some reasons, they just could not afford those things or they did not buy them. So, when they receive those things as gifts it makes them very happy and they remember those moments for a long time. When I was a child my mother could not buy me a bicycle because we did not have enough money at that time. So, when my grandfather bought me my first bicycle it was the happiest moment in my life. Moreover, he personally taught me how to ride and I spent all my spare time after that doing cycling.
	To sum up, I think that people remember special gifts because they are presented with love, care and come from special people.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/198-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-14-a-zoo-has-no-useful-purpose",
Essay 1857:
	Keeping wild animals in cages for public exhibition is a tradition that people are performing for a long and for majority people this is an amusement and educational purpose for kids while others think it to be a very inhuman act. This is a much-debated issue and I personally find no usefulness of a zoological garden where these animals and birds of different kinds are kept for public entertainment.
	First of all, the idea of keeping wild animals in cages is really a brutal one and human should not be proud of act like this. Who has given us the power and authority to forcefully bring animals to zoos and then being hilarious watching their activities? Do our weapon and brain makes us superior and powerful enough to decide the lives of other species? No, if we are superior to those wild animals, it is our humanity and superiority of thinking power and where would that humanity is when we encage other species? There are thousands of amusement parks and children parks and we should not make a zoo that would only represent our brutality and the outcry of the animals.
	Have we ever though if a more intelligent species arrives in our territory and encases us like we do to other animals, how pathetic that would be for us? Many people would say that those are educational purposes and to let the kids know about those animals. But in a zoo what we see are encaged animals with their dismay and helplessness. Children would never learn the true nature of those animals when they would learn it from a zoo. Animal Planet and Discovery channels are two better alternatives for children to learn about those wild animals than the zoo.
	Zoo is many countries are used for commercial purposes and no matter what the authorities do; they can’t ensure a free life for a bird which should be flying in the sky rather than trying to escape from the cage.
	In conclusion, the zoo serves no useful purpose and there are no good reasons to put the animals and birds in cages.  
Essay 1858:
	Some people believe that zoo has no useful purpose while others argue that zoo is used for recreational purposes. This is an issue which is greatly debated and controversial but I strongly believe that a zoo interrupts our ecological system. There are several reasons for my standing on the side why the zoo is worthless.
	Firstly, animals always look beautiful in the forest which is their natural inhabitant. Whenever we put animals in cages from the forest, we interrupt the natural law. Thus forests lose their beautiful natural environment. It is also inhuman to put the free animals in cages. Because day-by-day animals which are used for human entertainment purposes get deteriorated in their physical growth as well as get interrupted their normal proliferation.  Thus many animals have become extinct. Besides, without the interruption an animal wondering in a natural forest keeps our natural environment safe.
	Secondly, sometimes many animals cannot cope with the cages. Moreover, many zoo authorities don’t provide necessary foods and proper accommodation and right treatment which are required for the survival and production of the animals. Furthermore, zoo authorities earn a lot of money to display these wild animals among the general peoples but this money is not properly utilised among this wild animals. As a result, these animals suffer from various kinds of diseases and scarcity of foods.
	Thirdly, another important point is that Zoo is destroying our food chain system. It is actually destroying the food ecosystem nature preserves. At least not at least, Kids who captive animals for their fun and entertainment, get a bad impression and this is not good for their mental growth. Safari park, which is an alternative system of a zoo, where animals get large places and greener trees and foods at the same time, can be a better alternative than a zoo. General people can learn about the animals from these short of natural parks and this way we can cause less harm to the wild animals and to the mother nature.
	In conclusion, we can say that zoo is inhuman and serves almost nothing for us while it destroys the natural equilibrium.
Essay 1859:
	From the one side, a zoo has many benefits for people. First of all, children can learn about animals not only from books and TV programs but from actually watching them alive and observing them. They can see animals, touch them and even feed them. I think it is an amazing experience for a child. He gains more knowledge and experience from this "communication" with an animal. Secondly, a zoo is a perfect place for adults to see many animals that people are not able to see in their lives. A zoo creates the opportunity for people who otherwise could never watch these animals. The authority takes great care of the animals they preserve and normally earns a lot of money which is used for the development of the country.  
	However, from the other side of the view, I keep asking myself "What kind of benefits we get by confining wild animals in the cages in a zoo?" Unfortunately, I think that wild animals should live in their nature environment. Moreover, I think that we should observe them through TV programs sitting in our favourite chairs, or people who like danger should try to observe them in the native environment. I think that animals are not toys. I know that most zoos try to keep their animals in the environment which is close to their native, but they can not give them as much freedom as animals want to. It is a frequent matter that many wild animals die after they are confined in the cages and this is really an abominable act.
Essay 1860:
	Whether a zoo has useful purposes or not and should we put the animals in a zoological garden or not is an issue that has been much debated. People are divided in their opinions and when one group says that, zoos should not exist; other group presents the usefulness of it. In my opinion, a zoo has many useful purposes.
	People, who are against the establishment of zoos, always show the logic that we should not keep the free animals in cases and that’s completely a mockery of our true humanity. They have their logics and to a degree this is logical but when they question humanity for this act, they are wrong from many perspectives.
	The zoo sometimes saves the endangered species and becomes a safe house for many animals. People do not visit the zoo to boast their superiority; rather they go there for recreational and educational purposes. A child who visits a zoo can learn many things which otherwise would not have been possible.  
	In conclusion, zoo indeed has many useful purposes and it is a great educational and recreational place for many people.
Essay 1861:
	Captive animals are kept in closed enclosures for public viewing and entertainment, this charade is named as "zoo". Does this place stand any purpose in our betterment as the human being? In my opinion, a zoo does not serve any such purpose and it should be exiled.
	Many incidents of animal attacks on humans and vice versa reports from zoo across the world are readily available on the internet these days. The former takes place because these animals are at times traumatised or ill-treated which attributes to the attacks, whereas latter is a case where they are moulded to our purposes using insane methods . An exemplification would be in India, where elephants are being trained through such methods to serve human purposes.
	On what grounds would such a place could even be considered to serve a useful purpose? A broader perspective would be, people especially children visiting a zoo have a recusant impact about our fellow primates in their minds due to the over dominating nature of human beings being displayed.
	Considering the mentioned problems, any favours in running a zoo is outweighed. Thus it is high time that all zoos should be either be shut down or replaced by natural sanctuaries where animals are more close to their natural realm of life.
Essay 1862:
	First of all, I have a very cherished and vivid memory that I visited a zoo in Singapore when I was 6 years old. In another time I went to a circus and I saw that an elephant was so unhappy and tired when it was performing. At that moment, I was so sad and felt pity for those animals. Those animals were supposed to be in their natural inhabitants rather than entertaining people. They either had been caught from a jungle or was sold out from a zoo. Furthermore, the area for the animals in most of the zoos is limited and it is quite cruel for animals. It's like taking away the freedom of a living animal and this is not justified according to many.
	On the other hand, zoos in general serve some useful purposes. The most useful purpose of a zoo is to educate people, especially children. Children who visit a zoo get the chances to know about different animals and can broaden their perspective. From my experience I can say that zoos are educational for young and adults as well. A zoo is one of the best places for family to go for a short trip. Furthermore, many animals kept in a zoo get good care and researches show that saving endangered animals is one of the main purposes of many zoos nowadays. In my opinion, if the proper environment, care, food and treatment are ensured for animals kept in a zoo, it can further improve the true purpose of a zoo.   
	To conclude, some of the traditional zoos with limited area, fewer staffs and less facilities should be changed to bigger and better zoos. A zoo has many useful purposes including educating people and safeguarding endangered animals though keeping animals in a zoo actually takes away their freedom.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/197-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-13-what-changes-do-you-think-this-new-century-will-bring",
Essay 1863:
	As we have already stepped into the 21st century, it is inevitably true that enormous changes like advances in technology, heath care, and transportation will be visibly experienced. This essay will highlight the beneficial growth in our health sector and transport system that is possible to be made available in the new generation.
	Development in the health care will be greatly observed in this century. First of all, the diagnosis of severe diseases will be straight-forward as a consequence of the presence of high technological apparatuses and innovative devices. Secondly, rehabilitation and cure to deadly illnesses will be less complicated, this is due to the constant research of the professionals like the medical team and scientists on the treatment like medicines, effective exercise, and healthy eating. Lastly, the percentage of deaths of the human beings will significantly decrease and therefore, the quality of life will enhance and chances of people to live longer will gradually rise.
	Another noticeable trend that we can look forward to in this era is the technological approach to transportation. Faster and more reliable transport system will be made available to the public at a cheaper price. Hence, people all over the world can step foot to the different diversity of each country close to a blink of an eye. A good example is the constant competition of the airline companies, therefore, decreasing their price range or offering a more reasonable package holidays to the mass public.
	In conclusion, there are several advantages that human beings will experience in the 21st century. Through vigorous experiments and knowledge learnt from the previous generations, people may expect a more convenient life such as able to live a longer and healthier as well travelling will less financial worry.
Essay 1864:
	The new century comes with a different technology, inventions, political and social changes and also brings the new brutality in human history and the 21st century has already brought many changes in the world and human lives and certainly there are yet more changes to come.
	First of all, the technological changes and updates would become more frequent and the use of the internet, cell phone and computers would become widespread. Even in very remote areas people would use these technological advances and that would both positively and negatively affect their lifestyle. Second, the religious fanaticism would diminish and except few fanatic people, most other would live a life where religion would bring little conflicts. Third, the improvements in genetic engineering and medical science would improve the way of people live as it would eradicate many deadly diseases. However, the history suggests that new devastating diseases would emerge without any cure. Fourth, the conflict among nations would become more economic than the doctrine and politics. The world would be divided in terms of capitalism and socialism and new political dogma would appear in many countries.
	Fifth, People would learn more about the outer space as the experiment and scientific research on outer space are going on more steadily than ever. Sixth, the nuclear power would replace the traditional power sources and at the same time many countries would possess the nuclear power and that would always be a threat to the world. I would not be surprised if nuclear war takes place in this century and destroy a great number of countries. Then people would explore the sea resources as the land resources would be less in number and that would be a great new source for people.
	In conclusion, the world would have newer technologies and a better life expectation in this century while the political conflict would arise and that might lead to destruction. At the same time, people would learn more about the outer space and sea resources more than ever.
Essay 1865:
	There is no doubt that 21st century will bring extremely advanced and innovative changes, related to almost every field and it will help the human being to raise the standard of their lives. What kind of changes are expected, it will be discussed in following paragraphs.
	To begin with, one must acknowledge that 21st century is a technologically advanced century. Inventors are doing extremely tremendous research work to make the new inventions come into existence, which will ultimately lead to a sophisticated life for the human.
	Advancement in the things, which someone can use in their daily life, can be seen, for instance, gadgets and equipment, to make our work more reliable and accurate .Apart from this ,exploration in the space related programs is also possible ,which will ultimately help the human to protect the mankind as well as earth as such discoveries will be helpful to explore more about the universe and they may be able to predict about the upcoming danger or helps us to prevent them. Furthermore, in future, adequate medical facilities will be there as day by day new inventions related to medical field are coming into existence, remedies for diseases, which are incurable in the present scenario, might be possible in future.
	To recapitulate it can be stated that in upcoming few years human will be blessed with adequate facilities, which definitely will make their lives quite easier, due to advanced technology.
Essay 1866:
	Man, through the ages, has undergone many changes from the time when he depicted a herd of mammoths on the walls of his cave to these days when he can create beautiful pictures and even make coffee by use of computer technologies without leaving his favourite chair. The 20th century made huge steps in developing computer technologies and reached many goals that made our life much easier. What should we expect in the 21st century?
	First of all, I think that the pace of our life will speed up: we will move faster from one place to another, from one continent to another using high-speed jet aeroplanes. Second of all, I believe that we will be able to do many things that take much time now without leaving our house. Computers will be everywhere including out clothes. Many people will have chips and mini computers inserted in their heads to hold a huge amount of information and have a quick access to it.
	But what will be the most amazing thing in the 21st century is the flights to the outer space and Mars that will be available to all people. Scientists say that Mars has many things similar to the Earth's. Moreover, they say that with the help of modern technology people can artificially create conditions that will allow people to live there on the constant basis.
	Apart from that, Computers would become more powerful and they will have superior artificial intelligence. We will have robots to do the hazardous works like mining and outer space research. Surprisingly, e-commerce would be in more convenient form and most of the people will purchase online rather than going to shops in person. In the field of education and jobs, dramatic changes would happen. Online learning and freelancing would be very popular and people would be able to earn almost all of their desired degree and diploma staying at home. Finally, the cure for many deadly diseases would be invented and yet new diseases may spread to cause some deadly catastrophic results.
	To sum up, I am sure that many amazing changes will be brought by the 21st century. Furthermore, I think that with the help of the contemporary technologies people can do many things that were even difficult to imagine a century ago. So, nowadays it is rather difficult and even impossible to imagine all changes that will happen in the next decades.
Essay 1867:
	Essay Topic:  
	Present a written argument to an educated reader with no specialist knowledge of the following topic:
	Use examples and details in your answer.
	Answer 5:
	The beginning of a new era, 21st century, brings the question to anyone's mind "whether it is the beginning of a great shift?" Well, in my opinion, the changes will definitely bring a revolution to the mankind.
	As the world is progressing towards the new and sophisticated technologies and inventions, our lives are becoming easier and more relaxed. The mode of communication is faster and cheaper as compared to early times. In a fraction of a second, information can be transferred to the distant part of the world. All thanks go to the user-friendly applications, like the email feature, that are being invented for the welfare of mankind. In this new century, communication would be free of charge and more interactive.
	Secondly, the technology in this century will improve the quality of health care facilities given to an individual beyond expectations. The health care professionals will be more qualified and adept. Due to the advancement of the research facilities, many deadly diseases will be eradicated. The quality of life would be significantly better and our lifespan would increase. Finally, space research in this century would unfurl some answers we have been seeking for a long. Maybe at the end of this century human would be ready to live on another planet.
	But all these improvement and marvel would not come without the cost. There is no doubt that human would become somewhat slaves in the hand of technology. Their personal lives would be greatly affected by the over usage of technology. More powerful weapons and the threat of nuclear war would be a great concern for the world population in this century.
	To conclude, this era would bring many marvellous discoveries to our life but at the same time, the perils of nuclear war would be a great anxiety for peace lovers all around the world.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/196-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-12-men-do-most-of-the-high-level-jobs",
Essay 1868:
	Though some people would argue that women are working in high-level job positions in many renowned organisations, the reality is that the number of such women employees is very ignorable compared to their male counterpart. As a result, the issue appears that the government should reserve a certain percentage of such jobs for women and this is supported by a group of people while being criticised by another group. In my opinion, the government actually should reserve a percentage of such jobs to maintain the equal opportunity, to maintain a balanced workspace and in the overall economy.
	First of all, the high-level jobs occupied by the male diminish the balances of power between the male and female in such organisations. Since we are living in a century where we are most sincere to establish the equal power of men and female, this is very reasonable that women should actually work in such high-level positions. Second, the consumers, end users and service receivers of a company and organisation are both male and female and female decision-making employees for such companies are equally important compared to the male.
	Third, the society would like to make a balance between the contribution of male and female and again the power between them, without letting women work in high-level job position, it would not be possible. The women are needed to participate in every sphere of society for a better world and without letting them use their ability we can’t actually expect that.
	Fourth, the women are improving in terms of education, power, contribution in the current era than before and such a scheme is taken by the government would inspire them more to run ahead. In third world countries, the fate of girl is determined when her parents decide if the girl should go to school or should learn to cook and get prepared for marriage. The privilege provided by the government in case of jobs for women would encourage such parents to equally treat their boys and girls.
	In conclusion, a certain reserved position for women in high-level jobs is actually a good idea to empower the women towards the overall betterment of the organisation and society. 
Essay 1869:
	Equality for both man and women is the accepted underpinning philosophy of modern society that we live in. Most constitutions maintain an equal right for men and women. Most public institutions and formal organisations hold an equal view in treating either sex. Despite the fact that male high officials outnumber female high officials by a great margin, in most of the countries there is no legal or statutory bar against women going up in the ladder. I am against any kind of positive bias towards women in the form of reserving a percentage of higher positions for women. That will only encourage anomaly, imperfection in practices and most importantly it is not going to serve the ultimate goal of escalating women’s positions in a society or in a country's economy unless they earn that by themselves rightfully.
	In the bygone days, women were primarily engaged in household responsibilities. Women’s involvement in economic, organisational and public activities is not a very old practice. But in the recent decades, things have changed dramatically and many women in the west are going to the top in career and profession. Even in the third world countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, the presence of working women is everywhere, competing with the male counterparts and even surpassing them in many aspects. They are acquiring the necessary education, gaining proper knowledge abut their rights and are in the process of being recognised as organizationally as valuable contributors. In Bangladesh, in many instances girls toppled in open public examinations, and their success rate is generally higher than man. Women are earning professional reputation in their job places as well.
	Against this backdrop, there is no reason that government should go for reserving positions for women. Instead, a government should take initiatives to eradicate any bias against women and make favourable work environment for women. Firstly, governments can ensure women’s access to education and thus empower them and make them prepared for life as in many societies women lack education and empowerment.
	Secondly, women suffer from gender discrimination, chauvinistic behaviour and worse even, sexual harassment in workplaces. Governments should have clear and strict policies to ensure an environment where workers from both sexes coexist with ease. Thirdly, women should be entitled to have special conduct during motherhood. Due to the very role of a woman in a family, supports from the workplace are important for working women.
	Women and man both should be viewed as equally capable. If we look over our shoulder, we can see that the number of eligible, skilled and executive-class working women is actually increasing quickly in recent years. Govt. should no go for reserving a certain percentage of high-level jobs for women. That will only undermine women’s ability and women will grossly find that their self-respect is on declination. They can find their own way towards the prosperous carriers by the  of their own virtue and efforts.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/195-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-11-nuclear-technology-should-be-used-for-constructive-purposes",
Essay 1870:
	Many people are afraid of nuclear technology because of the dangers associated with its use. And belligerent leaders and terrorists may cause great human disasters by the use of nuclear weapons of mass-destruction. Though it is true that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to life, I personally support the use of nuclear technology for constructive purposes can bring human benefit.
	The most worrying aspect of nuclear technology is its use for military purposes by many high and mighty countries. Enough atomic bombs have already been made which are capable of completely destroying the planet. An increasing number of countries now have nuclear weapons or have the technology required to make such bombs, and there is an ongoing debate about how to control the threat of nuclear weapons. After the fall of Russia, many Russian scientists have found their nuclear technology expertise is in high demand in countries that have an ambition with nuclear technology. Many believe that, at that time, technology has been secretly made available to many aspiring countries such as Iraq, North Korea, India, Pakistan and others. Experts believe that nowadays, many confrontational countries and terrorist organisations have nuclear power and they  know how they could use this power for terrorism and mass destruction. However, it would have been better if it had never been used to create nuclear weapons. If life on earth is to continue, we must control nuclear weapons of mass destruction. To eliminate the threat of nuclear war, all the nuclear power nations of the world should agree to disarm as soon as possible.
	Nuclear power stations provide an important source of cheap power in many industrialised nations and some developing countries. However, like most sophisticated technology, there are dangers associated with it. Even though very high safety precautions are taken, there have been few cases of disasters; two or three were major human disasters. Yet many experts believe that in the coming days, nuclear power will be the most efficient source of energy for the mankind.
	Nuclear technology has been widely used in medical science. X-rays are widely used technology that medical diagnosis. Radiotherapy is widely used to help cure some diseases such as cancer. Controlled and measured radiation is applied on malignant cancerous cells to kill them or stop their spreading.
	In conclusion, nuclear technology certainly has many positive uses and offers lots of promise. But we have to bear in mind that it is dangerous if not handled properly or goes to the wrong hands. Nuclear technology should be only used for the true benefit of the mankind. If we forget this, we have to take the responsibility of our own destiny.
	Like any other technological invention, the nuclear power has a great potential to be used positively for the betterment of the people and at the same time, it can cause disaster if used negatively. So the use of nuclear technology and its possible destructive power is an issue which is much debated and in my opinion, we should use this power positively for the benefit of the human.
	First of all, the technology contains power and this power can both be positively and harmfully used. Nothing is wrong with the technology or tool but with the people who actually command it. We can’t think of the modern life without the use of cell phone, TV, refrigerator etc. and are not they causing harm to the environment? Yes they are, and a single gas cylinder can be used to cook foods and then feed people or run vehicles and on the contrary can be used to blow up a house.  Only because the gas has the power to blow a house does not abstain us from using it for our benefits.
	Second, most of the countries in the world, except few rich countries, struggle for the electricity and similar energy powers and can’t improve because of the scarcity of it. The nuclear power can be a great source of energy for these countries and can be a very effective solution for them to improve their life standard and overall economic status.
	In every sphere of life, we need energy: from irrigation to hospital operation and the use of nuclear energy can ensure better lives for us. Obviously, the nuclear power possesses a great power that can destroy a city or even a country if not properly handles, but this is not the reason we should completely forget about a power that can change the world.
	In conclusion, we should learn from our past mistakes about the explosions of the nuclear centres and then come with better solutions to use this power towards the betterment of mass people.
Essay 1871:
	Nuclear technology has been one of the hottest inventions during the 20th century. However, there have been heated debates about whether this technology should be used at all, even for very constructive purposes such as power generation.
	The reasons why we need nuclear applications are very dear. First of all, our society is quickly running out of energy supply, and statistics even show a shortage of traditional fuel within 50 years. Besides the poor supply of energy, we are also facing pollution challenges. The CO2 generated in the past century has been roughly equal to the total amount of Carbon dioxide released in the entire history before. In short, we do not have enough energy to use, and can no longer afford to use it in the old way.
	Nuclear technology is a much more available and cleaner solution to our possible energy and environmental crisis. At the current level of technology, the discovered nuclear supply will be enough to sustain the earth for more than a century. Its generation, if properly operated, produces nothing other than heat, so it is considered super clean. However, I fully understand the concerns from nuclear opponents.
	First of all nuclear facilities will require strong capabilities to be operated safely. When the operators are not experienced enough, devastating accidents can be created. These have been seen in the former USSR and as well as in Japan. It takes time and resources to acquire such capabilities and not every country can afford it. The other issue with nuclear technology is that it can be easily modified into weapons, which can cost many lives when deployed.
	Given the challenges we are facing, it is very necessary to promote the nuclear technology. However, this must be carried out very carefully, under strict regulations and the supervision by the entire human society.
Essay 1872:
	Nuclear technology is a subject, which triggers many a debate. The use of nuclear power in constructive purposes has been a moot issue, since its inception. In my opinion, if used with diligence, nuclear energy can be the pivot of future technological breakthroughs. Let us discourse on this below.
	On a global perspective, when it comes to natural resources of power generation, the world is witnessing its exhaustion at a faster pace than ever before. For mankind to survive, finding an alternate source of energy has become inevitable, rather explicit. On this context, nuclear power emerges as the most efficient and economical alternative. Many of the experts in the field of technology assert that the need for an alternate energy source has reached such dizzy heights that nuclear revolution is becoming a reality now.
	"Necessity is the mother of invention" as the saying goes, need for an efficient and at the same time cheaper energy resource has lead to the invention of nuclear power. Apart from these enchanting features, power generation, nuclear sources are considered much easier. To cite an example, labour force required in a nuclear power plant is less compared to others.
	However, in the midst of the globalisation, among the many national frontiers, nuclear technology and power pose the greatest threat. Improper use of his powerful technological gizmo could lead to catastrophic effects. Another point relevant here is about the affinity of terrorism and its ambassadors towards nuclear power. The threat posed by this insane breed of people is both global and ubiquitous nowadays. Moreover, safety elapses from nuclear production plants is another risk factor involved. The nuclear power plant leakage that happened in Japan a few years ago and its atrocious effects on the Japanese would exemplify this.
	From an in-depth analysis of the above-discoursed points, though the threat posed by nuclear technology is mammoth, I would still accord on its usage for constructive purposes. But one should bear in mind that, it should be moderated by benevolent and diligent hands.
Essay 1873:
	Physicist Enrico Fermi discovered the potential of nuclear fission in 1934 and later Albert Einstein during the end of the 20th century enhanced the possibility of its usages with his sole aim to use for peaceful purposes. Almost all developed countries employ this innovation for numerous reasons like power generation to craft a bomb. Although I believe that there are safety issues, I agree that nuclear technology must be employed wherever it is beneficial. The basis for my views is economical and ecological.
	From an economical point of view, even though the initial investment is quite high to ensure multilevel security, the running cost of the nuclear-powered industries are negligible, when compared to its peers. For instance, in a nuclear power reactor, one gramme of uranium can generate electricity equivalent to a thermal reactor which consumes one thousand kilogrammes of coal. Moreover, nuclear reactor supports conservation of natural resources as it requires lesser input. Therefore, nuclear-based plants need to be functional.
	From an ecological perspective, the nuclear plant supports greener environment due to the fact that its remains are biodegradable. In addition to that, the nuclear process does not exhaust poisonous gases like its competitors. For example, as per the recent research by the American scientists, air pollution is highest and lowest in those nations which rely on petroleum based industries and nuclear plants respectively, to generate electricity. Petroleum based industries exhale toxic gases like carbon monoxide and methane which are hazardous. Thus, it is obvious that nuclear-based plants should be operational.
	In conclusion, by analysing how nuclear-based industries save a myriad of money and resources as well as walk in hands with the environment, it is agreed that nuclear technology must be put into force wherever it seems advantageous. It is predicted that many rounds of safety checks are carried out before a nuclear plant is operational.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/194-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-10-more-and-more-foreign-students-are-going-to-english-speaking-countries-to-learn",
Essay 1874:
	There is no debate that being in a real English language environment will help anyone to master the language in the fastest and most effective way and many international students prefer to go to English-speaking countries to study and learn the international language. I agree that this is a good way, yet students can learn English in other useful ways and those can be even better than the first approach.
	Being in an English speaking country helps students learn English in many ways. Firstly, the surroundings and environment influence our learning. We are forced to speak, read write, and slowly we start even thinking in English since we have to. Secondly, quick learning of the language can become a strong motivation because, in turn, we will get quick feedback that lets us find what we learn really benefits us in life and education. This inspires us to continue to learn more. It’s a positive reinforcement Learning builds on progressively. The initial learning serves as the basis for further learning. Thirdly, in an English-speaking country, you will be learning from the life and culture which is not present off that land.
	However, in this age of cross-culture communication and Internet, learning English in an English-speaking country is not the only way. The English language learning opportunities are available in many countries. Nowadays people are able to find various ways of learning the English language in their home country that are highly effective and productive. Watching English movies, television, listening to English music and browsing Internet can open up a vast plethora of English materials. For instance, one can make use of the vast storage of materials (video, sound, graphics, etc.) on the Internet to facilitate language study. Sometimes non-English speaking students may need a different approach for learning English. The principle of “different students, different teaching”, by the famous saying by Chinese guru Confucius, maintains that different teaching approaches are useful for different segments of students. The way a foreign student learns a language is quite different from those of an English native speaker. For example, a foreign student higher level; however, it is unnecessary for a native speaker. Last but not the least, on some occasions, students may find teachers in their own countries do a better job in figuring out their exact weak points and the remedies for them. A teacher of a non-English country understand the basic of a student and can combine both the native language and English to make the study plan and this might be more helpful than a native English teacher's approach of studying.   
	In conclusion, I believe studying English in English-speaking country is a good way but in many cases, the other ways can be proven to be more efficient than being in an English speaking country.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/193-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-9-many-office-authorities-impose-restriction-on-smoking-within-the-offices-premises",
Essay 1875:
	There is no scope of argument that cigarette smoking is harmful both for the smoker and people around him/her. Cigarette smoking has two major effects on non-smokers-injurious passive smoking and smoking display that has an invitational or persuasive effect on non-smokers. I believe banning smoking in public places and offices not only will discourage smoking but will also keep the smoking practice out of site, though it might apparently look like transgress into smoker’s freedom. But I believe any harmful activity of a particular person or group of people can not be a definition of freedom. If smoking right in any place is a definition of freedom then why not other drugs? In m opinion, every public place including office must be smoking free.     
	There are several reasons that government and private authorities are being strict on smoking in offices and even public places. Firstly, this is an accepted fact that smoking is injurious and deadly to health in several ways. Secondly, smoking causes health hazards to non-smokers who inhale smoke passively from the smokers. Thirdly, smoking has a strong psychologically influence on others, particularly on children and young who learns from their elderly. Fourthly, in many countries, the cost of health care and insurance has gone up due to smoking related illnesses. So health authorities and governments are trying to have been seen that due to the restrictions, the habit of smoking is on a decline among office goers.
	Though non-smokers think that restricting smoking in offices and public places is a good idea, smokers often view it as an intervention into their right. Smokers argue that cigarette smoking has a direct relation to their workplace performance, though passive smoking can cause objections from colleagues. But considering the harm of smoking it should be banned.
	Though pressure groups such as tobacco companies may discourage restrictions on smoking, since the advantages of ban outweigh the disadvantages, mass public support such bans. Moreover, offices have the right to regulate staff behaviour and activities and governments too can ban smoking in public places for a greater societal benefit.
	In conclusion, restricting smoking in workplaces and in public is a good idea. I can also understand the opinion of smokers that banning smoking in such places limits their work speed but I believe with little practice and determination they can overcome it. So I strongly support the idea of prohibiting smoking in any public place including the office premises.  
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/192-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-8-safety-standards-are-important-when-building-people-s-homes",
Essay 1876:
	People or commercial constructors build homes for private dwelling or for commercial uses and the number is increasing rapidly as the demand for new buildings is increasing. In all cases of building a new construction safety of dwelling is important. It is home maker’s or contractors responsibility to build houses complying with standard engineering requirements and building codes set by the respective governments. I believe that the government should always be there to strictly enforce building codes, and in the case of non-compliance authorities should take punitive measures. Enforcement of the law is government’s responsibility. Since non-compliance can not only cause hazards to the homeowners, but also to tenants and if in a cooperative or apartment, many co-owners may suffer.
	The building codes are regulatory requirements concerning safety and quality of the construction, use of space and others. For example, in an earthquake-prone area, the buildings should not be very high and the design and structure must have higher earthquake resistance. Big houses and long buildings (i.e. academic departments, hotels and hostels) require dilatation every 15-20 meters so that in a heavy earthquake, only part of a building collapses, not the whole. Moreover, the quality of the materials used in construction and electric wiring, and the gas connection should pass minimum safety standards. Adequate entry & exit facilities and emergency exist, fire extinguishers are also very important is establishments like factories, hall rooms, discos, party centres.
	In cases of a wooden house, wood must be coated with fire-resistant paint. In large apartments, office buildings, hall rooms and lobbies of hotels, fire-barriers made of rubber and steel are used to prevent the spreading of fire. Similarly, in areas of frequent hailstorms, skylights must not be used, and if so, must be protected by steel shutters.
	Many constructors often tend to ignore the minimum safety requirements to minimise costs which jeopardise people’s life. Many private homemakers do not know details of these standards and precautions. It is the responsibility of the government to disseminate such essential knowledge and monitor the compliance of builders, developers and makers of houses. However, the builders cannot avoid their responsibility anyway.
	In conclusion, in this modern world, the government is ultimately responsible for its entire citizen’s safety and good life. It is also the government's responsibility to enforce strict building code. If the negligence of any government agency jeopardises people’s life, the government will be held responsible.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/191-to-solve-the-ever-increasing-environmental-hazards-throughout-the-world",
Essay 1877:
	It is true that skyrocketing the fuel price can make a nosedive on the use of vehicles in many cities but curtailing the volume of energy we utilise is not an elixir as it would soar the daily living expense as well. Hence, the human being ought to scout out renewable energy in an attempt to halt the tide of environment upheaval.
	To begin with, protecting the environment only through the buoyant price of energy sounds somewhat over-optimistic. Developing other environment-friendly forms of momentum, such as hydrogen, which is the most potent weapon to deal with this murky water is a far better solution. Despite the exorbitant price of fossil fuel, there is still a kaleidoscope of transportation that will need it. And by extension, airplane would be a concrete example- although the usage of these kinds of gigantic transportations is bound to dwindle, it is undeniable that they still emit a sheer amount of carbon dioxide. Therefore, diving deeply into the domain of substitute energy can be served as a luminary that close Pandora’s Box.
	Besides the renewable energy and the colossal fuel price, rearing a myriad of flora can usher in a great preponderance. What renders an easy access to oxygen is the vegetation which would absorb carbon dioxide – the most malignant element to our environment. In this dimension, revive the biodiversity seems as important as importance can be. Shielding the rainforest from deforestation and planting a broad spectrum of trees that spanning from alpines to bush on the major boulevards can truly breathe life into the urban sprawl. Most importantly, it could thoroughly eradicate the environment ailments.
	With all that, it is reasonable to extrapolate that spurting the fuel prices can be described as a blunt instrument. Nevertheless, impeding a wide range of anthropogenic activities and cementing the cornerstone of ecosystem might be much more possible and practical to tackle with this elusive enigma.
Essay 1878:
	Environmental or natural hazards are the results of physical processes that affect humans and environment every day and harmful for both in the short and long run. As the use of fuel increases to keep up with modern demands and increased population, the world is becoming more vulnerable to environmental hazards and disasters. Floods, earthquakes, severe thunderstorms, toxic or oil spills immediately come to mind when comprehending this issue, implying that all these things are inherently hazardous.
	One of the most effective solutions to these environmental hazards is to raise the price of fuel. The use of petroleum and gasoline can release toxic chemicals into our atmosphere. These chemicals escape into the air during refilling, from the gasoline tank and carburettor during normal operation, and from engine exhaust. Transportation sources account for about 30-50% of all harmful emissions into the atmosphere. The industrialisation is another reason for the omission of harmful chemicals too.
	“Smog” is another environmental hazard. It causes human respiratory stress, and damages many plants, significantly reducing farm crop yields and the “health” of trees and other vegetation. Burning gasoline emits significant quantities of a wide range of harmful gases into the atmosphere. For example, carbon monoxide is a poisonous gas produced by incomplete combustion. Carbon dioxide, a normal product of burning fuel, is non-toxic but contributes to the greenhouse effect, which is also known as global warming and it is probably the most dangerous threat to the human existence.
	Raising the price of fuel would mean that people would use less petroleum and gasoline. They would find other alternative means of transport to save money, which would mean using less high-priced fuel for everyday purposes. For example, cycling is a healthy activity and it saves the earth too. Also, for a long journey, people could try to find friends together for car-pooling. Carpooling saves a lot of fuel and would save a lot of money too. But other things should be considered to reduce the use of these dangerous fuels. A government should implement strict rules of using cars, for instance no less than 4 persons should be allowed to drive a single car. The price should be increased in a thoughtful way because if the price is so high it will hamper the average people's life leading. There are so many people yet use public transportation for movement and the increased price will make their life miserable. The prices of many necessary daily ingredients also increase with the price of the fuel.         
	Many environmental hazards like “smog” and global warming are increasing around the world due to the excessive use of petroleum and gasoline in our daily lives. Raising the price of fuel could make all the difference to the environment. It would force people to use petrol in a more responsible way and use it less, and therefore be the most effective solution to the problem of ever-increasing environmental hazards though it might have some side effects but those can be controlled by the proper initiatives by the Government.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/190-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-6-cricket-has-become-more-popular-than-the-national-sports",
Essay 1879:
	Cricket, traditionally an English sport, is becoming increasingly popular in other parts of the world like Australia, South Africa, Indian Continents etc. But the popularity is evidently the highest among the countries of the Indo-Pak sub-continent, for reasons that are historical, anthropological, geographical, and even commercial. There are more than 200 crore audiences of cricket only in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Srilanka and they are certainly the highest part of cricket fans than another part of the world. 
	The game of Cricket came to South-Asia in the hands of the English colonists centuries ago and has seeped into the hearts of the people here while the cricketers of here have won over the hearts of the English. This inter-continental love-affair perhaps has made the south-Asians elope with the Bat and Ball from their national and ethnic sports. Also, World Cup wins in the 80s and 90s, and phenomenal performers like Hanif Mohammed of the 50s and Sachin Tendulkar of late, all have made Cricket more psychologically ethnic than the native sports of this region. Mother Nature had her hand in it too. Cricket is compared with religion in the country like India. Even when the war and conflicts hot the air of India and Pakistan, the stadium tied the friendship these two countries. 
	Some opine that South-Asians are natural cricketers. It has indeed been proven that the sub-continent players are more adaptive to the physiological demands of Cricket compared to how they get naturalised to other international sports e.g. Football, Basketball etc. Also, the climatic conditions here are relatively more suitable for playing cricket compared to the climates of many other parts of the globe. Not to forget, the virtually uncountable population of this region that continually fuels the ever-sprouting 11-member teams needed to stage only half of a Cricket game and supplies the hundreds of millions of spectators to cheer the players. Altogether, it is like a match made in heaven, “divine” enough to surpass any hereditary bond.
	Commerce plays its own amazingly profitable part too. Cricket enthusiasts of here have become the primary consumer base of many global enterprises who mass-charm the sub-continent customers through extravagantly sponsored tournaments. ICC, the governing body of world Cricket, also cajoles the people here because of their financial utility and cossets them from their sporting heredity. The national sport of the Indian sub-continent is only official and in practice, they are not popular at all. The kids play cricket in the fields, streets, rain harvesting fields and even in the terrace of the building. They show a little interest in other national sports and thus how the appeal of those games are reducing.
	Regardless of where it came from, the most certain conclusion to be made here is that Cricket is to stay and sustain in the nourishment of the South-Asian pandemonium and will indefinitely reign over the people here like the God-sent hero who conquers not only the matter but also the nativity.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/189-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-5-violence-and-conflict-were-more-evident-under-male-leadership-than-under-female-leadership",
Essay 1880:
	The human history has been violence and conflict-stricken since the beginning of the human existence. If we look back in history or to the world around us, we see wars, conflict, power struggles and revolutions, peace making kings, prudent emperors and ruthless rulers. History also reveals that society has always been predominantly male dominated, with leaders and rulers mainly being men. It is, hence, easy to blame the ruler and put the responsibility of atrocities on the shoulders of men. But a deeper perspective always reveals to historians that conflict is a generic tendency of humans. So peace being disturbed is not the liability of men only, but humans in general, and a power shift, from men to women, is destined to be futile in prevailing peace.
	Most of the women who are known to be great till date, e.g. Queen Isabella of Spain, Queen Mary, a.k.a. Bloody Mary, Victoria, and Elizabeth of Britain, all have ruled over a vast spectrum of power. And they often have done so ruthlessly, achieving goals with an iron hand. They have waged wars that are barely comparable to only a few of those devised by men. These women are not anomalies of history, but examples from numerous others, who went beyond the boundaries of gender in the path of prevailing in power while expanding peace whenever they deemed it to be expandable.
	The two greatest wars of modern history, World Wars I & II, have taught us that wars are impersonal. Race, religion, nationality, sex are only pretences to the universally human lust for power. It is true that during both the global conflicts men were in the rulers’ thrones. But it will be foolish to say that Margaret Thatcher, the famed Iron Lady who spared no road against a minnow enemy in the war of Falkland, would be more peacefully diplomatic than how the greats Winston Churchill and Franklyn D. Roosevelt had been tackling the Axis of Hitler.
	The gender issue is only a determinant in the battle of the sexes, not the battles among nations and peoples. It is therefore, impertinent, if not irrational, to conclude that world conflicts result from the rule of a particular gender and the finer sex would do a better job at prevailing peace if selectively put at the helm of human nations.
	Though some people argue that war and conflicts among nations and within a territory are impersonal regardless of men and women leaders, the history suggests that world saw less violence, war and conflicts under female leaders. Considering this in in mind I suggest the idea that female leadership can be considered for a better world.
	The major World Wars, conflicts among nations, civil wars mostly caused by the male ego, assassinations and conflicts of interests among men. Very few female leaders contributed making decisions to have war with other nations in their period of ruling a country. Sometimes people often mention the Trojan War and convict a female as the main reason for this war. But the fact is, it is not even a historically approved war and its root lies more in mythology than in evidence. And even if it was true, female leaders were not even remotely involved deciding to start the war.  Though the number of male rulers throughout the history is much more compared to the number of female leaders and very few major wars could be related to the decision or action taken by women.
	Women are naturally mild-hearted and avoid conflicts and wars by all means. They are more caring and less violent by their prototypes and that makes them better leaders in terms of serving people. The leader who is caring and has the mentality to serve people would naturally be a good leader and women are better candidates than men in this regards.
	In summary, the idea of female leadership in terms of avoiding wars and serving nations better is indeed a good idea.
Essay 1881:
	Certain people think that violence and conflict were more evident under male leadership than under female leadership since the dawn of the time. Throughout the history, Male leadership encourages violence and some other sets of people suggest considering female leadership to prevail peace.
	The issue whether or not 'female leadership can be considered as a better option to prevail peace' is always a debatable issue. There are strong arguments from both the sides and let us discuss in a detailed way.
	Firstly, World history clearly suggests violence were more evident under male leadership .An instance illustrating this in action is first and second world wars .Male leadership encouraged violence in those 2 worlds wars and it is proved that violence is more evident under male leadership .In addition to this, women are against violence by nature and suffer a lot because of the violence thus the women leadership always try to prevail peace. For example, some Asian countries tried to restore the peace during women leadership. It is obvious from this that women leadership can be considered to bring back the peace
	There is always an opposite side of the coin. Certain women leadership proved that they are ready to encourage violence. To illustrate this, Pakistan started a war during women leadership and it clearly proves that peace cannot be restored by changing leadership. In addition to this, Bangladesh also saw a great deal of internal violence during women leadership only. It is clearly proved that violence can be evident under women leadership also.
	Thus it is recommended, to prevail peace in all circumstances irrespective of women or men leadership. Peace can prevail in many ways and consider female leadership is only one of those options.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/188-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-4-parents-are-the-best-teachers",
Essay 1882:
	‘Whether parents are our best teachers or not’ is a never-ending debate and people are divided both in favour and against this argument. Both have a very strong contribution and influence on a child’s learning but in my opinion, parents overtake the teachers in terms of teaching their children.
	First of all, I would like to point out that a teacher is not merely a person who takes a text book and read texts from there to a student. Rather a teacher is someone who devotes his/her times to teach someone everything that someone needs to know to advance to next step. Morality, intricacies of life, subject matter knowledge, art, science, history, value of time etc. are something that can’t be taught through academic books and a good teacher is someone who teaches someone these all.
	Now that we know the true responsibility of a teacher, we can easily compare our parents and teachers. The things that we learn from our parents are far more important than what we learn from our teachers. I am not denying the invaluable knowledge we learn from our teachers through our academic years, but what we learn from our parents are incomparable. We learn to survive, talk, and distinguish well from bad, values of life, morality and such important other things from our parents. We are the true reflection of our parents and our characters are shaped by their personality and behaviours. Later the teachers help us to enhance our knowledge, horizon and our view of life but the very foundation and ground are made by our parents.
	The parents sacrifice so many things of their life just to ensure a better life for us and nothing in this whole world could even be compared with their sacrifice for us. Think of a student who is unable to pay his/her monthly school fees would be cast away from the school and the beloved teachers would scarcely be there to help him/her. On the other hand, the parents would always be there with their every possible effort to help the child.
	In summary, the things we learn from our teachers are important for our lives and with those valuable lessons and knowledge we prepare for the future but the things we learn from our parents shapes who we are, who we become and their contribution is much more important compared to the contribution of the traditional academic teachers and that’s why in my opinion parents are best teachers.
	Parents can be the best teacher for every child coming on this earth. I agree with this statement as no learning institution can be compared with the parents as they are role models for their children since they open their eyes in this world till they are fully grown up and matured.
	To start with when the child is born he sees his parents as his guide, mentor & teacher who will teach him how to speak, eat, drink, live, wear, interact etc. No one will be with him when he is crying for anything it will be the parents who will be with him for every problem and his / her every need. Even during his education days he will observe and learn that the school although is the learning institution but the moral & ethical values learned from parents are far greater than any learning center and parents will be the one who wants the children to be the best in this world and they want their children not to repeat the mistakes that they have done in their lives which any learning institution won’t care for as they can’t give individual attention to every student.
	On the other hand, we see that generally the children who are orphans or could not get the attention from their parents don’t have that foundation of ethical, moral and social values as compared to the ones who have been trained by their parents despite all of  them have gone to schools, colleges etc. The only difference between them is parents.
	If the parents are not well educated they could still prove to be good teachers for their children but that will be of less fruitful from the highly educated parents as educated and learned parents will have more vision and more horizon as compared to the unlearned.
Essay 1883:
	(Disagreement: Parents are NOT the best teachers)
	Parents teach a lot to the children and the ground made by them shapes the future of the children. On the other hand, someone learns throughout his life and thus become the person he really is. In this learning process, he himself contributes the most and teachers, friends, nature, books, academic education are important as well. Though parents are very good teachers, in my opinion, they are not the best teacher for someone and the person himself is the best teacher for him.
	After we learn to talk, walk and basic morality and intricacies of our life, we start going to school and there we learn new things every day. The book, the teachers, the friends and the environment shapes what we become. Parents teach their kid to a bright, good fellow and yet there are lots of immoral and corrupted people who actually were transformed badly by themselves. So someone himself is the best teacher for him. Besides this the things we learn from our life experiences, teachers and books become far more important that what we learned in our infant time.
	Parents do their fine duty to raise a child to become a good adult and later he gets the education and experiences from his life and school play the vital role for his future.
	In terms of being our teachers, our experience and nature play an utmost important role. We learn so many things from our surroundings and nature is a silent teacher who widely opens the mystery and significance of our life.
	 The things we learn from our parents are of course important to our life but they are rather some righteous lessons and good advises. Later in our life, we face the real situations and learn the true lessons from our experience and in terms of learning this is the most important part.
	So considering all of the above, I would like to opine that, parents are very important teachers for us but never the best teachers. 
Essay 1884:
	(Disagreement: by  Marlar Tinaye) 
	Our parents are the first teachers. They teach us how to talk and many other things which are vital for leading our lives. There are many different parents who instruct the children and handle their lives. Some parents want their child to conquer more than the efforts. They try to be the best teachers for the children. They pay more attention and thus there are some conflicts between children and parents. So the child looks for the avenue to escape. It makes the child walk on the wrong road. Teachers at a school have the chance to guide many children. So, they can compare different situations and potential of children more than parents can do. So, they are more capable of instructing and guiding them properly.
	In our town, we can see many negligent parents. They leave their children in another house and sometimes the children play on the road and hurt themselves and become the victims of accidents. Some concerned people have to return the child to his home back. Parents are not teaching and showing the preventive measures and dangerous situations to the children. But some parents can become better teachers for the child and thus prevented tragic consequences.
	Some parents will deliberately instruct the child in some dangerous attitude or philosophy and they let the child adhere to evil things. So the children enjoy more in risky conditions and grow up to be a very perilous person.
	One, therefore, should not presume that parents are always the best teacher. Sometimes they are the worst teachers a child might have.
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/187-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-3-women-make-better-parents-than-men-and-that-is-why-they-have-the-greater-role-in-raising-children",
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/186-nowadays-food-has-become-easier-to-prepare",
Essay 1885:
	With the advantages of technology, the human has shifted to a lifestyle in which individual requirement for delicious food has emerged not just to fulfil the hunger. They want to enjoy a diverse range of foods with a varying taste and for that have invented many new and complex recipes. They want to do it easily and swiftly with the help of modern tools and technology. Has this really improved our lifestyle or has done more harms? Let us examine this in the following essay.
	People want to enjoy a diverse type of food - prepare them at home or eat at expensive restaurants. People want to try new cuisines both at home and at restaurants and they want to be served promptly. This is where the modern equipment takes part in, and food preparation nowadays is easier and faster and this has definitely enhanced our lifestyle as it allows us to enjoy food, not just satisfy our tummy.
	Moreover, modern tools like the rice cooker, microwave oven, slicer, mixer, electric heater and so on make the cooking process quick and convenient. This saves a great deal of time unlike the past when someone had to be busy all day to prepare meals for the family. People now have more time for recreation, hobbies and for the family. For students, busy corporates, businessmen and researchers, this improvement remarkably enhances their lifestyle.
	On the downside, the advancements in food preparation methods have led to the growth of fast food industries and their restaurants pop-up everywhere, like mushrooms after the rain. This might seem convenient for those who do not have time to prepare food at home, but the health hazards are even greater. The obesity rate is skyrocketing in western countries and more people, these days, are suffering from health-related issues.
	In conclusion, the latest technology has undeniably improved the quality of an individual’s living standard but not without a cost. To make the best of this development we have to avoid junk food but prepare more nutritious food at home.
Essay 1886:
	Food is one of the fundamental needs of human lives, and from the ancient period until this ultra-modern tech-time people have invented different ways to prepare and customise foods. The improvement has definitely enhanced our lifestyle as we have more time to do more productive things.
	To begin with, the customs and ways people prepare foods and present to others vary depending on the race, culture and country. But the most fundamental need of preparing foods is to fulfil the very basic human need- hunger. Preparing foods was very cumbersome in the past but with the advancement of human knowledge and technology, men have created many devices and made many new ways of easily making foods. The number of restaurants and fast-food shops are ever-increasing and that have omitted the need to prepare the food at all. The advanced technology like a rice cooker,  meal cooker and easy availability of ingredients nowadays help people to prepare food in no time and that has improved the way of people’s lifestyle. People now spend less time preparing foods and can utilise this time in other tasks like professional tasks, reading, entertainment and spending time with family and friends. Thus people get more productive and social because of the increased time they have.
	Quick food has become very popular which omits the needs of cooking and professionals, students and business person are having those foods during their lunchtime. This is a significant improvement in saving time and using it more productively. Though fast foods have some health issues, the ever-increasing popularity of it shows needs to have more time in our busy life and saving this time from the allotted time from cooking. The cooking machines help the housewives to prepare the foods easily and they do not have to spend time in a hot kitchen to prepare food. This is a leap towards a modern life where foods can be prepared virtually anywhere and in a few minutes.
	In summary, the improved way of cooking helps people nowadays to save time and cook in a more convenient place. This helps them to spend time on more important things and lead a life without much hassle. 
Link:  "https://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/185-people-attend-colleges-or-universities-for-many-different-reasons"
Essay 1887:
	People primarily enrol in a college or university to achieve the necessary education and degree they require to build a career. Apart from the career, people seek higher studies to gain knowledge, to enhance social status and learn more about diverse cultures.
	The current society and its educational structures are far different than they had been a century back when a self-educated person could gain a good career and parents could arrange private tutors to ensure their children’s education. But in today’s world, universities are the authority to declare a person to have the necessary education to be ready for the job. People are going to universities because this is the most common way of getting the education. The sole purpose of a college or university is to ensure the proper theoretical and moral education to build the ideal citizens the country needs and this is the system which is unquestionably accepted by the society. People who do not have the plan to use their certificate to get a job either because they have other career plans or may be blessed with inherited fortune.
	Many go to these educational institutes to learn values, gather ideas and education they require to be good humans. In fact, education is a borderline between a savage person and a good man and this is another reason the society has adopted the idea of education for all.
	Some people go to universities to get further education to enhance their horizon or to improve their job position and salary. Others go to the colleges and universities to let the world know that they are educated. Funny this may seem but many people simply consider the higher education as the status they require to get a higher position in the society.
	In conclusion, education, experiencing diverse cultures and customs, getting prepared for the future career, improving job position, subject matter interests and social status are the main reasons for people to attend colleges and universities.
	Career preparation is probably the primary and most important reason for people to attend colleges and universities. A college or university degree gives more opportunity to have a full-time and stable job. In comparison, a university degree holder is offered a better job that pays better than others. The job market is very competitive now a day compared to any other time in past. Careers such as telecommunication, information technologies etc. need many new employees. At colleges and universities, students can learn new skills for these careers and increase their opportunities for the future. In the whole academic years, the students learn not only the theory but also practical aspects of their future job needs. The universities prepare a structured and coherent syllabus for the students and without these experience and knowledge, it is almost impossible for anyone to make himself prepared for the job and the knowledge he/she required for the specified job position.
	Students also go to colleges or universities to have new experiences. For many, it is their first time away from home and they have to live among strangers. At colleges, they meet new people from many different places, races and cultures. They can see what life is from a different perspective. They can learn to live on their own and take care of them without having their family always nearby. The students have lots of opportunities to face the real-life situations while staying at a college or university. They learn to face the harsh situation, learn to treat the superiors, learn how to work to gain a desire aspiration, learn to work as a team member and so on. In short, colleges and universities offer so many different experiences that a student cannot get from anywhere else.
	At colleges and universities, students have the opportunity to increase their knowledge about technology, art, history, about themselves and outer world which are impossible to achieve staying outside the campus. As they decide what they want to study, pursue their studies, and interact with their classmates, they learn a lot about themselves. They also, of course, have the opportunity to learn about many subjects in their classes. In addition to the skills and knowledge related to their career, college students also have the chance to take classes in other areas. For many, this will be their last chance to study different subjects. Colleges offer much more than career preparation. They offer the opportunity to have new experiences and to learn many kinds of things.
	Many job holders, housewives even businessmen get themselves admitted into universities or colleges for a diploma course. These courses are essential in many different perspectives, like: to learn a new technology (for example, computer-related diplomas), to train up for a new career (for example, photography courses), or to make them ready for more challenging jobs (for example, MBA in Agriculture). I think all these are major reasons why people attend colleges and universities.
Essay 1888:
	Every human being with an ambition of getting higher knowledge requires attending colleges or universities. The main reason for attending universities or colleges may differ man to man. Someone may aspire to achieve greater knowledge, someone may just want to earn a certificate or someone might attribute it as a step towards career development.
	Whatever the reason people refer to attend universities - I would like to elaborate it as a step which is necessary for career development to grasp a required level of knowledge. I believe more or less, people attend universities or colleges to gain knowledge. In university level, people scatters in different groups for different subject areas of studies. Someone selects science someone selects arts. Every human being has their own selection base to get their assumed knowledge which is mandatory to accomplish their ultimate goal in career development. University or college provides a new level of experience which develops self-actualization and confidence in the human being as we know the proverb, “knowledge is power". Knowledge gives us strength and endows with skills that mould our future for betterment. People usually select their career path before entering university or college courses, for example, an aspirant doctor selects medical subject as the university course and therefore they join a medical college.
	Similarly, a future entrepreneur joins a business school to study business at the university level. I would like to elaborate before enrolling in universities or colleges we decide our future goal. Once our future goal is set we thrive to achieve it. I would like to illustrate whatever the reason people may attribute with university selection, it always refers to achieving new experience, knowledge or a process to start a career. Well, it is sometimes different for few people who has different ambitions but studying different subject matter unrelated to their goals. People attend universities and colleges for further education to ensure their job promotions. There are no alternatives to the colleges and universities to get higher degrees and thus people attend there to get the education they need to secure jobs. Interest is a subject is another reason people go to the higher educational institutes.
	Sometimes a few people attend universities as a tradition which has been referred as mandatory by society or family. A mere certificate is enough for them rather a means of gaining greater knowledge. Though it is a rare case which represents a niche segment but as a whole, we human being usually attend university or college as a hope of achieving greater understanding, new skills so that we can construct a good career in future. At the end, it is essential to pronounce that whatever the reason we believe behind attending universities or college’s maximum people take it as a step towards a better future to educate ourselves with knowledge.
Essay 1889:
	As today’s work environment has already become highly specialized, graduating from university is a prerequisite to even be able to compete in the job market. Still, the outlook for better career opportunities is certainly not the only reason why people strive for a higher education. Judging from my personal experience, there are several reasons to go to university, such as the desire to contribute to humanity’s knowledge base as well as the wish to tackle unanswered questions about oneself.
	First of all, numerous conversations with fellow students uncovered the deeply felt desire to add to a specific field of research and by doing so, advance humanity’s development. This motivation might be directed to a clearly set goal, such as working on a new kind of propulsion engine that might enable interplanetary space travel – or it might be more of a general kind, such as understanding the appropriate application of ethical principles in the light of artificial intelligence.
	Secondly, the drive to find out more about oneself can lead people to join the academic realm, so they become enabled to shed light on what still remains in the dark of their own being. For me personally, this was a contributing factor why I initially applied for a university program at the psychology department as I wanted to unravel the mysteries surrounding my own consciousness.
	Considering my personal experience and the insights that I gained from my peers, among a variety of reasons, the wish to be part of cutting-edge research and the curiosity about one’s own existence can motivate people to seek a university education.
Essay 1890:
	College education is a highly revered benchmark around the world. In many countries, without a college level degree, a citizen is not considered eligible for state jobs. People attend colleges for many reasons but career preparation is the most important goal among them.
	Most students enrol in colleges for bright career prospects and they study professional and job oriented courses. If achieved successfully with threshold scores, these courses increase the industrial employability of learners by training them with the skills industries need. For example, many companies organise direct campus selection programs in colleges, offering professional courses, to hire ready to utilise resources with rewarding salary packages. To add to this, in many cases, based on education, employees get different remuneration for the exact same job, and college education degrees play pivotal roles in accelerating promotion processes too.
	Some people also attend higher university courses to enhance knowledge. Students under this section mostly pursue challenging master and doctorate degrees in their fields. Most of these learners turn researchers and help the progress of the world. Some governments offer enticing whooping packages to the best minds to convince latter to select this study stream.
	Finally, considering all reasons to attend colleges or universities, it is clear that the paramount reason is career growth. However, 'gaining new experiences' and 'enhancing knowledge' are also prodigious reasons.
