Sample essay 1 
Explain some of the ways in which humans are damaging the environment. What can governments do to address these problems? What can individuals do to help? 
It is known that humans are responsible for a variety of environmental problems, but we can also take steps to minimize the damages that we are causing to the planet. This essay will discuss environmental problems and the measures that governments and individuals can take to address these problems. 
Two of the biggest threats to the environment are air pollution and waste. Gas emissions from factories and exhaust fumes from vehicles lead to global warming, which may have a devastating effect on the planet in the future. As the human population increases, we are also producing ever greater quantities of waste, which contaminates the earth and pollutes rivers and oceans. 
Governments could certainly make more effort to reduce air pollution. They could introduce laws to limit emissions from factories or to force companies to use renewable energy from solar, wind or water power. They could also impose ‘green taxes’ on drivers and airline companies. In this way, people would be encouraged to use public transport and to take fewer flights abroad, therefore reducing emissions. Individuals should also take responsibility for the impact they have on the environment. They can take public transport rather than driving, choose products with less packaging, and recycle as much as possible. Most supermarkets now provide reusable bags for shoppers as well as ‘banks’ for recycling glass, plastic and paper in their car parks. By reusing and recycling, we can help to reduce waste. In conclusion, both national governments and individuals must play their part in looking after the environment. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
minimize the damages: giảm thiểu tối đa những thiệt hại gas emissions: việc thải khí độc devastating(adj): nguy kịch contaminate(v): làm ô nhiễm, vấy bẩn reduce air pollution: giảm thiểu ô nhiễm không khí limit emissions: giới hạn lại việc thải khí 
green taxes: thuế xanh (loại thuế áp lên những hoạt động kinh tế có hại cho môi trường)  
 
Sample essay 2 
Some people believe that it is wrong to keep animals in zoos, while others think that zoos are both entertaining and ecologically important. Discuss both views. 
In this modern world, perspectives of how to keep animals are varied among people. Some people think about caging them in zoos or forests while others think it is illogical to limit animals’ movements. I am going to discuss these views according to environmental, personal and economic perspectives. 
Keeping some animals in zoos will protect them against predators, bad weather, and food inavailability. Nevertheless, keeping animals free is more logical than isolating them because if we keep animals caged, they would not be able to have fresh air and chase other animals. Therefore, it is cruel keeping animals confined in small spaces. It is advisable to put our efforts into keeping our creatures in their natural habitats, in order to give them the opportunity to experience normal life. 
Keeping animals is essential because some animals are in fact becoming extinct. Although keeping these animals is costly, the profits made by keeping these animals are substantial. Take Indian lions for example; a wide range of people travel to India to see these animals in circuses in India. However, some people think that governments should invest the money in improving the infrastructure of their nations instead. Building new electrical power station, for instance, is more important than spending thousands of pounds to preserve certain creatures from extinction. Lastly, keeping animals is important for study and research whereas others think we have no right to use animals for entertainment and in labs. 
To conclude, keeping animals in zoos might have values but it is irrational to keep these animals away from their natural habitat. The reasons are that besides they are not vulnerable creatures, they have the right to survive independently because of having feelings and emotions as human. 

(289 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ cage(v): nhốt trong chuồng 
food inavailability: sự khan hiếm thức ăn confine(v): nhốt (trong một khu khép kín) irrational(adj): vô lý 
 
 
 
Sample essay 3 
Universities should accept equal numbers of male and female students in every subject. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
It is believed that men and women should have the same educational opportunities. However, I do not agree with the idea of accepting equal proportions of each gender in every university subject. This essay will explain the reasons why admitting equal numbers of male and female students in every major is impractical. 
First, having the same number of men and women on all degree courses is simply unrealistic. Student numbers on any course depend on the applications that the institution receives. If a university decided to fill courses with equal numbers of males and females, it would need enough applicants of each gender. In reality, many courses are more popular with one gender than the other, and it would not be practical to aim for equal proportions. For example, nursing courses tend to attract more female applicants, and it would be difficult to fill these courses if fifty percent of the places needed to go to males. 
Apart from the practical concerns expressed above, I also believe that it would be unfair to base admission to university courses on gender. Universities should continue to select the best candidates for each course according to their qualifications. In this way, both men and women have the same opportunities, and applicants know that they will be successful if they work hard to achieve good grades at school. If a female student is the best candidate for a place on a course, it would be wrong to reject her in favour of a male student with lower grades or fewer qualifications. 
In conclusion, the selection of university students should be based on merit, and it would be both impractical and unfair to change to a selection procedure based on gender. 
(265 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
impractical(adj): không thực tiễn fill courses: lấp đầy các khoá học 
base sth on sth: dùng cái gì để làm nền tảng cho cái gì merit(n): sự xứng đáng (vì khả năng hoặc thành tích tốt) 
 
Sample essay 4 
We cannot help everyone in the world that needs help, so we should only be concerned with our own communities and countries. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? 
Some people believe that we should not help people in other countries as long as there are problems in our own society. I disagree with this view because I believe that we should try to help as many people as possible. 
On the one hand, I accept that it is important to help our neighbours and fellow citizens. In most communities there are people who are impoverished or disadvantaged in some way. It is possible to find homeless people, for example, in even the wealthiest of cities, and for those who are concerned about this problem, there are usually opportunities to volunteer time or give money to support these people. In the UK, people can help in a variety of ways, from donating clothing to serving free food in a soup kitchen. As the problems are on our doorstep, and there are obvious ways to help, I can understand why some people feel that we should prioritise local charity. 
At the same time, I believe that we have an obligation to help those who live beyond our national borders. In some countries the problems that people face are much more serious than those in our own communities, and it is often even easier to help. For example, when children are dying from curable diseases in African countries, governments and individuals in richer countries can save lives simply by paying for vaccines that already exist. A small donation to an international charity might have a much greater impact than helping in our local area. 
In conclusion, it is true that we cannot help everyone, but in my opinion national boundaries should not stop us from helping those who are in need.

(280 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ impoverished(adj): nghèo đói disadvantaged(adj): thiệt thòi on our doorstep: ngay trước mắt chúng ta prioritise(v): ưu tiên 
 
Sample essay 5 
Happiness is considered very important in life. Why is it difficult to define? What factors are important in achieving happiness? 
It is true that happiness is very important in people's life, but some people have different views about how to be happy. This essay will discuss the reasons that makes happiness difficult to understand and the things how to attain it. 
There are things that can make a person happy, while others do not such as a stable job, a beautiful house, or winning a lottery. A person will be happy with his life if he is able to feed his family by having a permanent job. Also, if the house is decent, he will be happy to see how comfortable life is to live in a place with wonderful furniture and appliances. Finally, winning a huge sum of money is a dream coming true for most people. However, others do not like to buy lottery tickets because some people believe that once they have won the lottery, they might put their family's life at risk, perhaps, they think somebody will try to kidnap their kids and ask for a ransom. 
On the other hand, there are simple factors in attaining happiness. For example, when a family of five could meet the basic needs such as food, clothing and a house, these could make a family satisfied with what they already have in life as long as they are together. Another example is being able to pass an English proficiency test to be qualified to become a registered nurse in Canada. Most foreign workers would be very glad if they could pursue their career after passing such a test. 
In conclusion, people have their own meaning of happiness and there are reasons why certain things make them happy such as basic needs or passing an examination test. 

(286 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ attain(v): đạt được 
meet the basic needs: đáp ứng nhu cầu cơ bản be satisfied with: hài lòng về điều gì pursue a career: theo đuổi sự nghiệp 

Sample essay 6 
In recent years, there has been growing interest in the relationship between equality and personal achievement. Some people believe that individuals can achieve more in egalitarian societies. Others believe that high levels of personal achievement are possible only if individuals are free to succeed or fail according to their individual merits. What is your view of the relationship between equality and personal success? 

In my opinion, an egalitarian society is one in which everyone has the same rights and the same opportunities. I completely agree that people can achieve more in this kind of society. 
Education is an important factor with regard to personal success in life. I believe that all children should have access to free schooling, and higher education should be either free or affordable for all those who choose to pursue a university degree. In a society without free schooling or affordable higher education, only children and young adults from wealthier families would have access to the best learning opportunities, and they would therefore be better prepared for the job market. This kind of inequality would ensure the success of some but harm the prospects of others. 
I would argue that equal rights and opportunities are not in conflict with people’s freedom to succeed or fail. In other words, equality does not mean that people lose their motivation to succeed, or that they are not allowed to fail. On the contrary, I believe that most people would feel more motivated to work hard and reach their potential if they thought that they lived in a fair society. Those who did not make the same effort would know that they had wasted their opportunity. 
Inequality, on the other hand, would be more likely to demotivate people because they would know that the odds of success were stacked in favour of those from privileged backgrounds. 
In conclusion, it seems to me that there is a positive relationship between equality and personal success.  
(260 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
egalitarian society: xã hội công bằng free schooling: giáo dục miễn phí learning opportunities: các cơ hội học tập 
harm the prospects: làm tổn hại đến khả năng phát triển in conflict with: xung đột, đối ngược với demotivate(v): làm nản lòng privileged(adj): có điều kiện, đặc quyền 
 
Sample essay 7 
Some people think that museums should be enjoyable places to entertain people, while others believe that the purpose of museums is to educate. Discuss both views and give you own opinion. 
People have different views about the role and function of museums. In my opinion, museums can and should be both entertaining and educational. 
On the one hand, it can be argued that the main role of a museum is to entertain. Museums are tourist attractions, and their aim is to exhibit a collection of interesting objects that many people want to see. The average visitor may become bored if he or she has to read or listen to too much educational content, so museums often put more of an emphasis on enjoyment rather than learning. This type of museums is designed to be visually spectacular, and it may have interactive activities or even games as part of its exhibitions. 
On the other hand, some people argue that museums should focus on education. The aim of any exhibition should be to teach visitors something that they did not previously know. Usually this means that the history behind the museum’s exhibits needs to be explained, and this can be done in various ways. Some museums employ professional guides to talk to their visitors, while other museums offer headsets so that visitors can listen to detailed commentary about the exhibition. This way, museums can play an important role in teaching people about history, culture, science and many other aspects of life. 
In conclusion, it seems to me that a good museum should be able to offer an interesting, enjoyable and educational experience so that people can both have fun and learn something at the same time. 
(253 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
exhibit a collection: trưng bày một bộ sưu tập put more of an emphasis: thêm sự nhấn mạnh interactive(adj): mang tính tương tác commentary(n): bài tường thuật 
 
Sample essay 8 
Some people believe that studying at university or college is the best route to a successful career, while others believe that it is better to get a job straight after school. Discuss both views and give your opinion. 
When they finish school, teenagers face the dilemma of whether to get a job or continue their education. While there are some benefits to getting a job straight after school, I would argue that it is better to go to college or university. 
The option to start work straight after school is attractive for several reasons. Many young people want to start earning money as soon as possible. In this way, they can become independent, and they will be able to afford their own house or start a family. In terms of their career, young people who decide to find work, rather than continue their studies, may progress more quickly. They will have the chance to gain real experience and learn practical skills related to their chosen profession. This may lead to promotions and a successful career. 
On the other hand, I believe that it is more beneficial for students to continue their studies. Firstly, academic qualifications are required in many professions. For example, it is impossible to become a doctor, teacher or lawyer without having the relevant degree. As a result, university graduates have access to more and better job opportunities, and they tend to earn higher salaries than those with fewer qualifications. Secondly, the job market is becoming increasingly competitive, and sometimes there are hundreds of applicants for one position in a company. Young people who do not have qualifications from a university or college will not be able to compete. 
For the reasons mentioned above, it seems to me that students are more likely to be successful in their careers if they continue their studies beyond school level. 
(271 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
face the dilemma: đối mặt với tiễn thoái lưỡng nan gain real experience: có được kinh nghiệm thực tế academic qualifications: bằng cấp  
 
Sample essay 9 
Several languages are in danger of extinction because they are spoken by very small numbers of people. Some people say that governments should spend public money on saving these languages, while others believe that would be a waste of money. Discuss both these views and give your opinion. 
It is true that some minority languages may disappear in the near future. Although it can be argued that governments could save money by allowing this to happen, I believe that these languages should be protected and preserved. 
There are several reasons why saving minority languages could be seen as a waste of money. Firstly, if a language is only spoken by a small number of people, expensive education programmes will be needed to make sure that more people learn it, and the state will have to pay for facilities, teachers and marketing. This money might be better spent on other public services. Secondly, it would be much cheaper and more efficient for countries to have just one language. Governments could cut all kinds of costs related to communicating with each minority group. Despite the above arguments, I believe that governments should try to preserve languages that are less widely spoken. A language is much more than simply a means of communication; it has a vital connection with the cultural identity of the people who speak it. If a language disappears, a whole way of life will disappear with it, and we will lose the rich cultural diversity that makes societies more interesting. By spending money to protect minority languages, governments can also preserve traditions, customs and behaviours that are part of a country’s history. 
In conclusion, it may save money in the short term if we allow minority languages to disappear, but in the long term this would have an extremely negative impact on our cultural heritage. 
(258 words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ preserve(v): gìn giữ 
minority group: nhóm người thiểu số cultural identity: bản sắc văn hoá cultural heritage: di sản văn hoá 
 
Sample essay 10 
As most people spend a major part of their adult life at work, job satisfaction is an important element of individual well-being. What factors contribute to job satisfaction? How realistic is the expectation of job satisfaction for all workers? 
In today’s life, there is a wide range of people who work under flexible environment, while others are exposed to stressful conditions. It is unadvisable to proceed with any job, if the employer is not taking into account the vital paths required in convincing their employees to continue their jobs properly. In this essay, I am going to address the contributing factors to job satisfaction which are in terms of working hours, salaries and graduates. 
It has been essential to understand individuals’ commitments to exclude this particular fellow from 9 to 5 working hours. For example, some people cannot be punctual at work because they have disabled daughters or sons, who could not be able to travel to school independently. Therefore, it is important to change the original time schedule to give these people flexibility. So this type of help would give them more job contentment. 
The fact that could not be denied and encourage the employee remarkably is the reliable salaries in addition to promotions to the highly achievable workers. For example, if a worker in a factory is able to fix a broken down one of the machines, it is illogical not to reward this worker for his great help to the factory. Therefore, if we award this worker, he will be grateful and more confident to his job. Awarding and reasonable salaries are essential elements to job satisfaction. 
It is essential to accommodate the right person at work on the right place according to their degree or certificate. If an individual has graduated as an accountant, it is unrealistic to work a job as a carpenter. One of the consequences of that is the worker is not going to like his job because there is no sensible relationship between this job and his main occupation. 
To conclude, if every worker is able to take part in a job which suits him financially, vocationally and academically, it could contribute to climbing the career ladder successfully.   
(327 Words)  Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
flexible(adj): linh hoạt punctual(adj): đúng giờ job contentment: sự hài lòng trong công việc accommodate(v): sắp đặt sensible(adj): hợp lý, có lợi 
 
Sample essay 11 
Some employers reward members of staff for their exceptional contributions to the company by giving them extra money. This practice can act as an incentive for some but may also have a negative impact on others. To what extent is this style of management effective? Are there better ways of encouraging employees to work hard? 
In times of high unemployment, employers need to do very little to encourage their staff to work hard, but when job vacancies are scarced, they have to find effective ways of rewarding their staff to stop them from going elsewhere. 
One obvious way of doing this is to offer extra money to employees who are seen to be working exceptionally hard and this is done in companies with a product to sell. For example, real estate agents or department stores can offer a simple commission on all sales. 
This style of management favors people who can demonstrate their contribution through sales figures, but does not take into account the work done by people behind the scenes who little contact with the public. A better approach is for management to offer a bonus to all the staff at the end of year if the profits are healthy. This, however, does not allow management to target individuals who have genuinely worked harder than others. 
Another possibility is to identify excellent staff through incentive schemes such as ‘Employee of the Month’ or ‘Worker of the Week’ to make people feel recognized. Such people are usually singled out with the help of clients. Hotels, restaurants and tour operators may also allow staff to accept tips offered by clients who are pleased with the service. However, tipping is a highly unreliable source of money and does not favor everyone. 
Basically, employees want to be recognized for their contribution - whether through receiving more money or simply some encouraging words. They also need to feel that their contribution to the whole organization is worthwhile. Good management recognizes this need and responds appropriately. 
(275 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
In times of: trong thời đại scarced(adj): khan hiếm exceptionally(adv): cực kỳ take into account: cân nhắc kỹ lưỡng worthwhile(adj): có góp phần quan trọng 
 
Sample essay 12 
Popular hobbies and interests change over time and are more a reflection of trends and fashions than an indication of what individuals really want to do in their spare time. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? Give reasons for your answer. 
In comparison with even the recent past, the choice of leisure activities on offer today is vast, so it is reasonable to find that some of these activities reflect the trends and fads of the day. 
People have far more money and time than before to pursue their interests but the ever-increasing number of activities does not automatically guarantee continuity. In fact, new hobbies come and go. For example, sports such as rollerblading lose their fascination after a few months. Similarly, although snowboarding has taken over from traditional skiing, it is doubtful whether its popularity will last. Other things like electronic games go out of date almost as soon as you have bought them because the manufacturers promote the fact that only the latest version is worth having. And so ensure continued sales. 
On the other hand, not everyone is a victim of fashion in this way and people of all ages and backgrounds may take up hobbies for social reasons. Traditional hobbies range from participation in active sports like tennis to old favorites such as chess and stamp collecting, and these continue to be popular. By joining a club, people can make friends and feel part of a group with whom they can share a common interest and leisure time. Where sport is concerned, most people know what they like and participate out of love of the game, rather than because it is currently fashionable. 
I believe, therefore, that while fashion may have an influence, particularly among the young, the majority of people enjoy their hobbies for their own sake. 
(261 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ In comparison with: So với reflect(v): phản ánh continuity(n): sự tiếp tục 
a victim of fashion: người đam mê thời trang share a common interest: có chung một niềm yêu thích out of love: vì tình yêu (cho điều gì) 
 
Sample essay 13 
As most foreign aid often benefits the donor more than the receiver, developing countries should refuse to repay their debts. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
Over the past 30 years, many countries have sent most of their income repaying the interest on foreign debts. Many people consider the initial loans responsible for these debts to be more beneficial to the lender than to the borrower. I agree with this view. 
In the past, most developing countries were short of ready funds to build the infrastructure necessary for development. Therefore, foreign countries were asked to provide loans for projects to help the countries become self-reliant. However, this money was often used to make quick profits for developers or to line the pockets of corrupt officials. Once the money is used, the problem of repayment begins. 
Since the 1970s many developing countries have found that they cannot pay back the loans or even the interest is accumulated on the loans. Consequently, the countries have borrowed more money to pay back the interest. This gave Western countries the power to dictate government policy through the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. These financial institutions are only interested in balance sheets. Therefore, nations have been forced to adopt policies which do nothing to develop their resources or improve the lives of the local people. Countries that get caught in this debt spiral have no chance of paying back the initial money borrowed, while the banks making the loans make two or three times the money lent after the interest payments are taken into account. As most donor countries have already been repaid, both in terms of money and in term of economic interest, it is morally right for developing countries to refuse to pay back foreign loans. 
In conclusion, as foreign aid does not always guarantee the well-being and the economic development of the borrowers, it is reasonable for these countries to refuse to repay their debts. 
(264 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
repay the interest on foreign debts: trả lại lãi của các món nợ nước ngoài self-reliant(adj): độc lập, tự phụ thuộc vào bản thân line the pockets: kiếm tiền một cách bất chính accumulate(v): tích luỹ dictate(v): qui định 
balance sheet: bảng cân đối kế toán (trong bài trên có thể hiểu là tiền) get caught in: bị vướng mắc vào  debt spiral: việc nợ chồng chất morally(adv): về mặt đạo đức 
 
Sample essay 14 
In some countries the average weight of people is increasing and their levels of health and fitness are decreasing. What do you think are the causes of these problems and what measures could be taken to solve them? 
Nowadays, obesity has become one of the outstanding problems in some countries especially in developed and developing ones in addition to the fact that the majority of people do not have a healthy body. 
In this modern world, the individual’s activities are so limited. It is obviously clear that the technology brings some benefits to the society like the availability of doing business from home via the Internet or utilizing vacuum cleaners or dishwashers which cause people to become so lazy. In this case, the lack of physical movements leads to having excess weight. Another reason for gaining extra weights could be the consumption of unhealthy foods, especially inorganic fruits and vegetables which are grown by harmful chemical fertilizers and artificial substances such as pesticides or substances used in order to boost the harvest process. These seemingly technological achievements can seriously harm humans’ health. 
To halt these irrecoverable influences or reduce the detrimental effects on our body, some pragmatic measures must be taken. Doctors believe that exercise is one of the best solutions to decreasing obesity and being healthy. By doing exercises just one hour per day, we will be able to improve our lifestyle remarkably. Another step towards health could be to eat nutrient-rich foods instead of fast foods. Vegetables and fruits help our body to have better metabolism. It is proved that digesting these kinds of foods is simpler for the digestive system of our body than animals’ meat. 
To conclude, I personally believe that the more we eat nutrition-dense foods or do regular exercises, the healthier body we have as well as a healthier mindset. 
(273 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
outstanding(adj): còn dang dở, chưa xử lý xong the lack of physical movements: sự thiếu vận động chia tay boost the harvest process: thúc đẩy quá trinh thu hoạch seemingly(adv): có vẻ như là halt(v): dừng lại 
irrecoverable influences: những ảnh hưởng không thể sửa chữa pragmatic(adj): thực tiễn 
nutrient-rich foods = nutrition-dense foods: những thực phẩm giàu dinh dưỡng metabolism(n): hệ trao đổi chất 
 
Sample essay 15 
People who travel to another country to live, work or study for a period of time often suffer badly from homesickness. Why is it? What are the best ways to reduce this problem? 
For overseas students and expatriates, homesickness has always been common. I believe that most people who travel away from home for any length of time will feel homesick at the beginning because missing their own home and country is a natural reaction. 
However, I think it becomes less of a problem as people adapt to the new environment and start to enjoy new relationships and experiences. Today many young people study abroad and for them it is probably their first time away from family, friends and everything that is familiar. 
The country they have moved to may have completely different culture and language, so they need to adjust to this and learn how to communicate in the ways. This can be very tiring, but until they can do so, they will feel out of place and unable to form new relationships. 
Professionals who have moved abroad for work may have left older parents behind, or even young children. For them the separation can be worse because they feel so far from the people they feel responsible for. 
I personally think that people should try and prepare themselves for study or work abroad. They need to learn the new language and try to be as adaptable and independent as they can. At the same time, however, they need to set up ways of communication quickly and easily with people back home, by using emails for instance, so that they know what is happening there and do not need to worry. If people are aware of the problems, they can do a lot to reduce their homesickness and make their stay abroad a positive, exciting experience. 
To conclude, the initial problem of getting oneself to fit in the new environment is what cause homesickness among people who live far away from their home country. The best solution is to be aware of the upcoming changes and prepared to embrace differences. 
(265 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ overseas student: du học sinh 
expatriate: người nước ngoài công tác tại nước khác adapt(v): thích ứng 
adjust(v): điều chỉnh 
feel out of place: cảm thấy lạc lõng separation(n): sự chia cách 
reduce one’s homesickness: giảm thiểu sự nhớ nhà embrace(v): đối mặt, đón nhận 
 
Sample essay 16 
The exploration and development of safe alternatives to fossil fuels should be the most important global priority today. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
It is true to say that fossil fuels are still our main source of energy today, and as more countries develop their industries and their economies, the scale of their use continues to grow. 
However, we are now well aware of the consequences of relying on this energy source for our natural environment. Global warming and the damage to the protective ozone layer are caused by carbon dioxide and other by-products of fossil fuels. So I certainly agree that these problems are global rather than national ones. They threaten our whole planet and no action by a single country could solve them. Furthermore, these problems are urgent as nobody knows when our natural world will be so damaged that it will no longer be able to support us. While some countries already use safer alternative energy sources, such as wind, water or solar power, it seems that there has not been sufficient investment in developing the technology to make such alternative viable for all. So it should definitely be a global priority to invest in such research and development. 
Obviously, there are other global priorities that we also need to address, such as poverty and diseases. But while it may be the case that these problems are just as important as the energy problem, there is a sense that time is ticking away for our planet and any solutions to the energy issue will take some time to achieve. So in conclusion, I agree that finding alternatives to fossil fuels is certainly the most pressing global priority, if not the most important one for our world today. 
(269 worlds) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
main source of energy: nguồn năng lượng chính scale(n): quy mô 
the damage to the protective ozone layer: sự huỷ hoại tầng ozon by-products: sản phẩm phụ   viable(adj): khả thi 
global priority: ưu tiên mang tính toàn cầu time is ticking away: thời gian đang trôi nhanh 
 
 
Sample essay 17 
In recent years some countries have experienced very rapid economic development. This has resulted in much higher standards of living in urban areas but not in the country side. This situation may bring some problems for the country as a whole. What are these problems? How might they be reduced? 

From the evidence of developing countries all over the world, it seems inevitable that economic growth is generated in the business and industrial centers of the major cities. As a result, urban citizens have access to jobs and facilities that improve their living standards considerably. However, it is usually the case that these are not equally enjoyed by people in the countryside and this generates several problems for the countries concerned. 
First of all, people from the countryside will try to move to the cities to get more employment opportunities and better access to facilities available there. However, this increase in the urban population puts great pressure on housing and services, and leads to the creation of massive slum areas where conditions may be lower than standards in the rural villages which are often left under-populated. This can impact food production and can have severe affects for people in both urban and rural areas. 
Finally, as a country’s economy develops, there may be an increasing sense of inequality as the towns get richer and the villages get poorer, and this may lead to more crime and even civil unrest. The key to reducing these problems seems to lie in improving the standard of living and the facilities available in the countryside. Perhaps incentives can be offered to factories and companies to relocate; road and rail networks can be built to make such relocation possible; doctors and teachers could be required to spend part of their professional lives in rural areas. 
In conclusion, discrepancies in economic growth can cause pressures on the overall living standards and many production activities. The essential way to deal with this is to try to rebalance the equality scale between urban and rural areas, by improving facilities and relocating businesses to the less advantaged regions. 
(272 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
inevitable(adj): không thể tránh khỏi generate(v): tạo ra, sản sinh ra put great pressure on: tạo áp lực lên 
the creation of massive slum areas: sự hình thành các khu nhà ổ chuột under-populated(adj): ít người sinh sống, dân số ít sense of inequality: cảm giác về cuộc sống bất công civil unrest: bất ổn xã hội relocation(n): sự di dời 
rebalance the equality scale: san bằng lại cán cân bình đẳng 
 
Sample essay 18 
Music is played in every society and culture in the world today. Some people believe that music brings only benefits to individuals and societies. Others, however, think that music can have a negative influence on both. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion. 
Generally, music is considered to be one of the most popular and ancient modes of human expression. It features largely in all histories and all cultures and indeed has been one of the main ways of passing on cultural traditions to new generations. 
Many people view music as a positive influence for societies. They also believe that the influence on individuals is wholly beneficial as it is a long-established way of communicating and helping us to understand the whole range of human emotions and experience in a more spiritual language than words can represent. 
However, there are different kinds of music and the qualities of classical music traditions are not necessarily part of the music many people experience today. In the modern world, there is a huge music industry that sells piped music to supermarkets and advertisers. We are also constantly exposed to loud modern music from people’s CD players, iPods or car radios. So the view of music today as a kind of noise pollution produced by money-driven people, is also a common and negative one, but it is difficult to think of a world without music. 
Certainly, there is bad music that may have negative influences, particularly on the young. But people’s taste in music tends to change as they get older, and it would be difficult to find someone who had no positive musical associations at all. In conclusion, I think that music can have both positive and negative influences on people and society, but it is an integral part of human expression that we cannot really separate from our lives. 
(267 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
pass on cultural traditions: truyền lại những giá trị truyền thống văn hoá long-established(adj): lâu đời, có từ lâu (và vẫn tiếp tục) spiritual language: ngôn ngữ về mặt nội tâm 
piped music: nhạc nền (phát trong siêu thị hoặc nơi công cộng nào đó) be exposed to: được tiếp xúc với money-driven(adj): làm mọi thứ vì tiền 
 
Sample essay 19 
Young people in the modern world seem to have more power and influence than any previous young generation. Why is this the case? What impact does this have on the relationship between old and young people? 
I would agree that young people today play a bigger role in society than their parents’ or grandparents’ generation did. This is mainly due to the larger social and technological changes that have increased the gap between the generations. Young people today are generally better educated, and because they have been trained from a young age to use computer technology, they have Internet access to information in a way that was unimaginable for earlier generations. This means that they are probably better informed than their parents’ grandparents were at their age, and their hi-tech skills give them confidence in dealing with the very rapid changes in technology that are so uncomfortable for older people. 
In addition, younger people are often the most affected by globalization. They follow fashions in clothes, music and social habits that are common among young people throughout the world. So they have become powerful consumers who influence big global markets today. As a result of these developments, relationships with older people are often difficult. Teachers and parents are treated with less respect, and experience is undervalued because young people think they know everything, or at least can learn about everything from the Internet. In many cultures, this has led to a decline in school discipline, an increase in family breakdowns and even serious social problems. 
However, the current generation gap is the responsibility of both younger and older generations. Both have to make efforts to understand each other and a good starting point would be for families to spend more time together than they normally do today. 
(264 Words) Band 9 Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
increase the gap between the generations: gia tăng khoảng cách giữa các thế hệ unimaginable(adj): không thể tượng tượng được hi-tech skills: các kỹ năng máy tính undervalue(v): đánh giá thấp 
a decline in school discipline: sự xuống thấp trong kỷ luật nhà trường  family breakdowns: việc các gia đình tan vỡ a good starting point: một điểm khởi đầu tốt 
 
Sample essay 20 
Modern societies need specialists in certain fields, but not others. Some people, therefore, think that governments should pay university fees for students who study subjects that are needed by society. Those who choose to study less relevant subjects should not receive the government Would the advantages of such an educational policy outweigh the disadvantages? 
In every country, there are fashions among students about which subjects are the best to the study at university. Sometimes the popularity of a subject is determined by how much money a graduate could subsequently earn in that field. Or subjects that are perceived as relatively ‘easy’ may also become popular, in spite of later difficulties of finding appropriate employment. It is up to governments to give incentives to students to choose subjects that match the needs of their society. 
Obviously one way to do this would be for the government to pay the fees of those choosing such subjects. The advantage would certainly be that higher number of students would enroll and would later fill the employment gaps. 
However, the disadvantages of such a policy would be considerable. For example, the students attracted by the funding may not have any real interest in or aptitude for that subject. Such students may drop out before graduation or after working only a short time in a related job. Furthermore, funding one group of students but not other would penalize those with a genuine interest and ability for another field. Such discrimination would certainly affect the whole of higher education of the country, and students would develop very negative attitudes towards going to university altogether. This would be very counter-productive for any country. In conclusion, I think there are many other incentives for students that could be considered, such as making courses more interesting to take, or the job rewards greater after graduation. The education policy proposed above, however, would certainly have more long-term disadvantages than benefits for society.  
Các cụm từ cần nhớ subsequently(adv): về sau 
incentives(n): những hỗ trợ, thưởng (thường là về tài chính) aptitude(n): năng khiếu drop out(phrv): bỏ học 
penalize(v): đưa ai vào tình thế khó khăn discrimination(n): sự phân biệt đối xử counter-productive(adj): phản tác dụng 
 	 
Sample essay 21 
The only way to reduce the amount of traffic in cities today is by reducing the need for people to travel from home for work, education or shopping.To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
It is certainly true that today traffic in cities throughout the world has become a major problem. This is obvious from the number of vehicles on our roads and the amount of pollution they cause. Probably the traffic problem is due to people commuting for work, study and other purposes and this is evident in the rush hours. 
It is also true that today such daily commuting is not always necessary because people can do these things from home, we can see this in the options Information Technology gives us today. For instance, on-line work, distance learning and shopping facilities are all available via the internet. 
However, even if everyone had access to the technology and the opportunity to work from home, it is unrealistic to think that everyone would want to. Even though the technology for working, studying or shopping on-line makes this option a possibility, it would mean people had less freedom of choice and less social contact in their lives. This would have a large impact on society as a whole. So, in conclusion, I think that while this practice could reduce the traffic problems in our cities, it is most unlikely to be an acceptable solution. In terms of other solutions, perhaps we need to think more carefully about facilitating public transport and limiting private cars in our city centers. The development of public transport that is not road-based, such as sky trains or subways would probably be a more workable alternative measure to reduce congestion on our roads. 
(260 Words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ commute(v): đi lại 
unrealistic(adj): không thực tiễn, viển vông 
facilitate public transport: tạo điều kiện thuận lợi cho phương tiện công cộng limit private cars: giới hạn số lượng xe cá nhân road-based(adj): (về xe cộ) hoạt động trên đường 
 
Sample essay 22 
Nowadays the way many people interact with each other has changed because of technology. In what ways has technology affected the types of relationships that people make? Has this been a positive or negative development? 
It is true that new technologies have had an influence on communication between people. Technology has affected relationships in various ways, and in my opinion there are both positive and negative effects. 
Technology has had an impact on relationships in business, education and social life. Firstly, telephones and the Internet allow business people in different countries to interact without ever meeting each other. Secondly, services like Skype create new possibilities for relationships between students and teachers. For example, a student can now take video lessons with a teacher in a different city or country. Finally, many people use social networks, like Facebook, to make new friends and find people who share common interests, and can they interact through their computers rather than face to face. 
On the one hand, these developments can be extremely positive. Cooperation between people in different countries was much more difficult when communication was limited to written letters or telegrams. Nowadays, interactions via email, phone or video are almost as good as face-to-face meetings, and many of us benefit from these interactions, either in work or social contexts. On the other hand, the availability of new communication technologies can also have the result of isolating people and discouraging real interaction. For example, many young people choose to make friends online rather than bonding with their peers in the real world, and these ‘virtual’ relationships are a poor a substitute for real friendships. 
In conclusion, technology has certainly revolutionised communication between people, but not all of the outcomes of this revolution have been positive. 
(257 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
have an influence on: có ảnh hưởng lên be limited to: giới hạn lại trong phạm vi nào đó social contexts: các bối cảnh xã hội 
discourage real interaction: làm nản lòng con người với tương tác ngoài đời bond with peers: làm thân với bạn bè substitute(n): sự thay thế revolutionise(v): cách mạng hoá 
 
Sample essay 23 
Some people believe that hobbies need to be difficult to be enjoyable. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
Some hobbies are relatively easy, while others present more of a challenge. Personally, I believe that both types of hobby can be fun, and I therefore disagree with the statement that hobbies need to be difficult in order to be enjoyable. On the one hand, many people enjoy easy hobbies. One example of an activity that is easy for most people is swimming. This hobby requires very little equipment, it is simple to learn, and it is inexpensive. I remember learning to swim at my local swimming pool when I was a child, and it never felt like a demanding or challenging experience. Another hobby that I find easy and fun is photography. In my opinion, anyone can take interesting pictures without knowing too much about the technicalities of operating a camera. Despite being straightforward, taking photos is a satisfying activity. 
On the other hand, difficult hobbies can sometimes be more exciting. If an activity is more challenging, we might feel a greater sense of satisfaction when we manage to do it successfully. For example, film editing is a hobby that requires a high level of knowledge and expertise. In my case, it took me around two years before I became competent at this activity, but now I enjoy it much more than I did when I started. I believe that many hobbies give us more pleasure when we reach a higher level of performance because the results are better and the feeling of achievement is greater. 
In conclusion, simple hobbies can be fun and relaxing, but difficult hobbies can be equally pleasurable for different reasons. 
(266 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
present more of a challenge: mang dáng vẻ của một thử thách 
enjoyable(adj): thích thú, hấp dẫn inexpensive(adj): không đắt đỏ technicalities: khía cạnh chuyên môn 
a greater sense of satisfaction: cảm giác hài lòng lớn hơn competent(adj): thành thạo, thông thạo 
reach a higher level of performance: đạt đến trình độ cao hơn 
 
Sample essay 24 
Some people think that all teenagers should be required to do unpaid work in their free time to help the local community. They believe this would benefit both the individual teenager and society as a whole. Do you agree or disagree? 
Many young people work on a voluntary basis, and this can only be beneficial for both the individual and society as a whole. However, I do not agree that we should therefore force all teenagers to do unpaid work. 
Most young people are already under enough pressure with their studies, without being given the added responsibility of working in their spare time. School is just as demanding as a full-time job, and teachers expect their students to do homework and exam revision on top of attending lessons every day. When young people do have some free time, we should encourage them to enjoy it with their friends or to spend it doing sports and other leisure activities. They have many years of work ahead of them when they finish their studies. 
At the same time, I do not believe that society has anything to gain from obliging young people to do unpaid work. In fact, I would argue that it goes against the values of a free and fair society to force a group of people to do something against their will. Doing this can only lead to resentment amongst young people, who would feel that they were being used, and parents, who would not want to be told how to raise their children. Currently, nobody is forced to volunteer, and this is surely the best system. 
In conclusion, teenagers may choose to work for free and help others, but in my opinion we should not make this compulsory. 
(250 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
work on a voluntary basis: làm việc không công unpaid work: công việc không công be under pressure: bị áp lực oblige(v): ép buộc 
against one’s will: trái với ý nguyện của ai resentment(n): sự phẫn nộ compulsory(adj): bắt buộc 
 
Sample essay 25 
There are many different types of music in the world today. Why do we need music? Is the traditional music of a country more important than the international music that is heard everywhere nowadays? 
It is true that a rich variety of musical styles can be found around the world. Music is a vital part of all human cultures for a range of reasons, and I would argue that traditional music is more important than modern, international music. 
Music is something that accompanies all of us throughout our lives. As children, we are taught songs by our parents and teachers as a means of learning language, or simply as a form of enjoyment. Children delight in singing with others, and it would appear that the act of singing in a group creates a connection between participants, regardless of their age. 
Later in life, people’s musical preferences develop, and we come to see our favourite songs as part of our life stories. Music both expresses and arouses emotions in a way that words alone cannot. In short, it is difficult to imagine life without it. 
In my opinion, traditional music should be valued over the international music that has become so popular. International pop music is often catchy and fun, but it is essentially a commercial product that is marketed and sold by business people. Traditional music, by contrast, expresses the culture, customs and history of a country. Traditional styles, such as jazz, can connect us to the past and form part of our cultural identity. It would be a real pity if pop music became so predominant that these national styles disappeared. 
In conclusion, music is a necessary part of human existence, and I believe that traditional music should be given more importance than international music. 
(261 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ accompany(v): đồng hành 
delight(v): vui vẻ với điều gì  arouse emotions: khơi dậy cảm xúc commercial product: sản phẩm thương mại cultural identity: bản sắc văn hoá predominant(adj): phổ biến, chủ yếu 
 
 
Sample essay 26 
Some people regard video games as harmless fun, or even as a useful educational tool. Others, however, believe that videos games are having an adverse effect on the people who play them. In your opinion, do the drawbacks of video games outweigh the benefits? 
Many people, and children in particular, enjoy playing computer games. While I accept that these games can sometimes have a positive effect on the user, I believe that they are more likely to have a harmful impact. 
On the one hand, video games can be both entertaining and educational. Users, or gamers, are transported into virtual worlds which are often more exciting and engaging than real-life pastimes. From an educational perspective, these games encourage imagination and creativity, as well as concentration, logical thinking and problem solving, all of which are useful skills outside the gaming context. Furthermore, it has been shown that computer simulation games can improve users’ motor skills and help to prepare them for real-world tasks, such as flying a plane. 
However, I would argue that these benefits are outweighed by the drawbacks. Gaming can be highly addictive because users are constantly given scores, new targets and frequent rewards to keep them playing. Many children now spend hours each day trying to progress through the levels of a game or to get a higher score than their friends. This type of addiction can have effects ranging from lack of sleep to problems at school, when homework is sacrificed for a few more hours on the computer or console. The rise in obesity in recent years has also been linked in part to the sedentary lifestyle and lack of exercise that often accompany gaming addiction. 
In conclusion, it seems to me that the potential dangers of video games are more significant than the possible benefits. 


In the developed world, average life expectancy is increasing. What problems will this cause for individuals and society? Suggest some measures that could be taken to reduce the impact of ageing populations. 
It is true that people in industrialised nations can expect to live longer than ever before. Although there will undoubtedly be some negative consequences of this trend, societies can take steps to mitigate these potential problems. 
As people live longer and the populations of developed countries grow older, several related problems can be anticipated. The main issue is that there will obviously be more people of retirement age who will be eligible to receive a pension. The proportion of younger, working adults will be smaller, and governments will therefore receive less money in taxes in relation to the size of the population. In other words, an aging population will mean a greater tax burden for working adults. Further pressures will include a rise in the demand for healthcare, and the fact young adults will increasingly have to look after their elderly relatives. 
There are several actions that governments could take to solve the problems described above. Firstly, a simple solution would be to increase the retirement age for working adults, perhaps from 65 to 70. Nowadays, people of this age tend to be healthy enough to continue a productive working life. A second measure would be for governments to encourage immigration in order to increase the number of working adults who pay taxes. Finally, money from national budgets will need to be taken from other areas and spent on vital healthcare, accommodation and transport facilities for the rising numbers of older citizens. 
In conclusion, various measures can be taken to tackle the problems that are certain to arise as the populations of countries grow older. 
(265 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
mitigate(v): giảm thiểu, giảm sự trầm trọng của vấn đề anticipate(v): lường trước eligible(adj): hợp pháp 
a greater tax burden: một gánh nặng lớn về thuế encourage immigration: khuyến khích nhập cư 
 
Sample essay 28 
Nowadays animal experiments are widely used to develop new medicines and to test the safety of other products. Some people argue that these experiments should be banned because it is morally wrong to cause animals to suffer, while others are in favour of them because of their benefits to both views and give your own opinion. 
It is true that medicines and other products are routinely tested on animals before they are cleared for human use. While I tend towards the viewpoint that animal testing is morally wrong, I would have to support a limited amount of animal experimentation for the development of medicines. 
On the one hand, there are clear ethical arguments against animal experimentation. To use a common example of this practice, laboratory mice may be given an illness so that the effectiveness of a new drug can be measured. Opponents of such research argue that humans have no right to subject animals to this kind of trauma, and that the lives of all creatures should be respected. They believe that the benefits to humans do not justify the suffering caused, and that scientists should use alternative methods of research. 
On the other hand, reliable alternatives to animal experimentation may not always be available. Supporters of the use of animals in medical research believe that a certain amount of suffering on the part of mice or rats can be justified if human lives are saved. They argue that opponents of such research might feel differently if a member of their own families needed a medical treatment that had been developed through the use of animal experimentation. Personally, I agree with the banning of animal testing for non-medical products, and I feel that it may be a necessary evil where new drugs and medical procedures are concerned. In conclusion, it seems to me that it would be wrong to ban testing on animals for vital medical research until equally effective alternatives have been developed. 
(270 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
morally wrong: sai trái về mặt đạo đức 
animal experimentation: sự thử nghiệm trên động vật ethical(adj): về mặt đạo đức justify(v): thanh minh cho điều gì  
banning of animal testing for non-medical products: việc cấm việc thử nghiệm các sản phẩm không thuộc y tế lên động vật 
 
Sample essay 29 
Some people think that governments should give financial support to creative artists such as painters and musicians. Others believe that creative artists should be funded by alternative sources. Discuss both views and give your own opinion. 
People have different views about the funding of creative artists. While some people disagree with the idea of government support for artists, I believe that money for art projects should come from both governments and other sources. Some art projects definitely require help from the state. In the UK, there are many works of art in public spaces, such as streets or squares in city centres. In Liverpool, for example, there are several new statues and sculptures in the docks area of the city, which has been redeveloped recently. These artworks represent culture, heritage and history. They serve to educate people about the city, and act as landmarks or talking points for visitors and tourists. Governments and local councils should pay creative artists to produce this kind of art, because without their funding our cities would be much less interesting and attractive. 
On the other hand, I can understand the arguments against government funding for art. The main reason for this view is that governments have more important concerns. For example, state budgets need to be spent on education, healthcare, infrastructure and security, among other areas. These public services are vital for a country to function properly, whereas the work of creative artists, even in public places, is a luxury. Another reason for this opinion is that artists do a job like any other professional, and they should therefore earn their own money by selling their work. 
In conclusion, there are good reasons why artists should rely on alternative sources of financial support, but in my opinion government help is sometimes necessary. 
(262 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ redevelope(v): phát triển lại represent(v): đại diện 
landmark(n); công trình được bảo vệ 
 
Sample essay 30 
Foreign visitors should pay more than local visitors for cultural and historical attractions. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion? 
It is sometimes argued that tourists from overseas should be charged more than local residents to visit important sites and monuments. I completely disagree with this idea. 
The argument in favour of higher prices for foreign tourists would be that cultural or historical attractions often depend on state subsidies to keep them going, which means that the resident population already pays money to these sites through the tax system. However, I believe this to be a very shortsighted view. Foreign tourists contribute to the economy of the host country with the money they spend on a wide range of goods and services, including food, souvenirs, accommodation and travel. The governments and inhabitants of every country should be happy to subsidise important tourist sites and encourage people from the rest of the world to visit them. 
If travellers realised that they would have to pay more to visit historical and cultural attractions in a particular nation, they would perhaps decide not to go to that country on holiday. To take the UK as an example, the tourism industry and many related jobs rely on visitors coming to the country to see places like Windsor Castle or Saint Paul’s Cathedral. These two sites charge the same price regardless of nationality, and this helps to promote the nation’s cultural heritage. If overseas tourists stopped coming due to higher prices, there would be a risk of insufficient funding for the maintenance of these important buildings. 
In conclusion, I believe that every effort should be made to attract tourists from overseas, and it would be counterproductive to make them pay more than local residents. 
(269 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ in favour of: ủng hộ điều gì keep something going: duy trì cho cái gì tiếp tục shortsighted(adj): thiển cận subsidise(v): chu cấp 
insufficient funding: thiếu quỹ tài trợ 
 
Sample essay 31 
Some people think that in the modern world we are more dependent on each other, while others think that people have become more independent. Discuss both views and give your own opinion. 
People have different views about whether we are more or less dependent on others nowadays. In my view, modern life forces us to be more independent than people were in the past. 
There are two main reasons why it could be argued that we are more dependent on each other now. Firstly, life is more complex and difficult, especially because the cost of living has increased so dramatically. For example, young adults tend to rely on their parents for help when buying a house. Property prices are higher than ever, and without help it would be impossible for many people to pay a deposit and a mortgage. Secondly, people seem to be more ambitious nowadays, and they want a better quality of life for their families. This means that both parents usually need to work full-time, and they depend on support from grandparents and babysitters for child care. 
However, I would agree with those who believe that people are more independent these days. In most countries, families are becoming smaller and more dispersed, which means that people cannot count on relatives as much as they used to. We also have more freedom to travel and live far away from our home towns. For example, many students choose to study abroad instead of going to their local university, and this experience makes them more independent as they learn to live alone. Another factor in this growing independence is technology, which allows us to work alone and from any part of the world. 
In conclusion, while there are some reasons to believe that people now depend on each other more, my own view is that we are more independent than ever. 
(279 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ rely on(phrv): phụ thuộc vào ambitious(adj): tham vọng dispersed(adj): phân tán count on(phrv): dựa vào  
 
Sample essay 32 
When choosing a job, the salary is the most important consideration. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
Many people choose their jobs based on the size of the salary offered. Personally, I disagree with the idea that money is the key consideration when deciding on a career, because I believe that other factors are equally important. 
On the one hand, I agree that money is necessary in order for people to meet their basic needs. For example, we all need money to pay for housing, food, bills, health care, and education. Most people consider it a priority to at least earn a salary that allows them to cover these needs and have a reasonable quality of life. If people chose their jobs based on enjoyment or other non-financial factors, they might find it difficult to support themselves. Artists and musicians, for instance, are known for choosing a career path that they love, but that does not always provide them with enough money to live comfortably and raise a family. Nevertheless, I believe that other considerations are just as important as what we earn in our jobs. Firstly, personal relationships work environment are extremely important when choosing a job. Having a good manager or friendly colleagues, for example, can make a huge difference to workers’ levels of happiness and general quality of life. Secondly, many people’s feelings of job satisfaction come from their professional achievements, the skills they learn, and the position they reach, rather than the money they earn. Finally, some people choose a career because they want to help others and contribute something positive to society. 
In conclusion, while salaries certainly affect people’s choice of profession, I do not believe that money outweighs all other motivators. 
(275 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
meet basic needs: đáp ứng các nhu cầu cơ bản 
provide sb with enough money to live comfortably: cung cấp tiền bạc cho ai để sống thoải mái 
raise a family: nuôi nấng gia đình work environment: môi trường làm việc 
professional achievements: những thành tựu chuyên môn motivator: nhân tố thúc đẩy 
 	 
Sample essay 33 
Nowadays celebrities are more famous for their glamour and wealth than for their achievements, and this sets a bad example to young people. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? 
It is true that some celebrities are known for their glamorous lifestyles rather than for the work they do. While I agree that these celebrities set a bad example for children, I believe that other famous people act as positive role models. On the one hand, many people do achieve fame without really working for it. They may have inherited money from parents, married a famous or wealthy person, or they may have appeared in gossip magazines or on a reality TV programme. A good example would be Paris Hilton, who is rich and famous for the wrong reasons. She spends her time attending parties and nightclubs, and her behaviour promotes the idea that appearance, glamour and media profile are more important than hard work and good character. The message to young people is that success can be achieved easily, and that school work is not necessary. 
On the other hand, there are at least as many celebrities whose accomplishments make them excellent role models for young people. Actors, musicians and sports stars become famous idols because they have worked hard and applied themselves to develop real skills and abilities. They demonstrate great effort, determination and ambition, which is required for someone who wants to be truly successful in their chosen field. An example is the actor and martial artist Jackie Chan, who has become world famous through years of practice and hard work. This kind of self-made celebrity can inspire children to develop their talents through application and perseverance. 
In conclusion, it seems to me that the influence of celebrities on young people can be positive as well as negative. 
(271 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
glamorous lifestyles: lối sống xa hoa set a bad example: tạo ra tấm gương xấu inherit(v): thừa kế 
self-made celebrity: người nổi tiếng tự thân perseverance(n): sự kiên trì 
 
Sample essay 34 
Families who send their children to private schools should not be required to pay taxes that support the state education system. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? 
Some people believe that parents of children who attend private schools should not need to contribute to state schools through taxes. Personally, I completely disagree with this view. 
For a variety of reasons, it would be wrong to reduce taxes for families who pay for private education. Firstly, it would be difficult to calculate the correct amount of tax reduction for these families, and staff would be required to manage this complex process. Secondly, we all pay a certain amount of tax for public services that we may not use. For example, most people are fortunate enough not to have to call the police or fire brigade at any time in their lives, but they would not expect a tax reduction for this. Finally, if wealthy families were given a tax discount for sending their children to private schools, we might have a situation where poorer people pay higher taxes than the rich. 
In my opinion, we should all be happy to pay our share of the money that supports public schools. It is beneficial for all members of society to have a high quality education system with equal opportunities for all young people. This will result in a well-educated workforce, and in turn a more productive and prosperous nation. Parents of children in private schools may also see the advantages of this in their own lives. For example, a company owner will need well qualified and competent staff, and a well-funded education system can provide such employees. In conclusion, I do not believe that any financial concessions should be made for people who choose private education. 
(269 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ tax reduction: việc giảm thuế tax discount: khấu trừ thuế 
pay the share of the money that supports public schools: trả phần tiền xây dựng các trường học công lập 
 
Sample essay 35 
Wild animals have no place in the 21st century, so protecting them is a waste of resources. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
Some people argue that it is pointless to spend money on the protection of wild animals because we humans have no need for them. I completely disagree with this point of view. 
In my opinion, it is absurd to argue that wild animals have no place in the 21st century. I do not believe that planet Earth exists only for the benefit of humans, and there is nothing special about this particular century that means that we suddenly have the right to allow or encourage the extinction of any species. Furthermore, there is no compelling reason why we should let animals die out. We do not need to exploit or destroy every last square metre of land in order to feed or accommodate the world’s population. There is plenty of room for us to exist side by side with wild animals, and this should be our aim. 
I also disagree with the idea that protecting animals is a waste of resources. It is usually the protection of natural habitats that ensures the survival of wild animals, and most scientists agree that these habitats are also crucial for human survival. For example, rainforests produce oxygen, absorb carbon dioxide and stabilise the Earth’s climate. If we destroyed these areas, the costs of managing the resulting changes to our planet would far outweigh the costs of conservation. By protecting wild animals and their habitats, we maintain the natural balance of all life on Earth. 
In conclusion, we have no right to decide whether or not wild animals should exist, and I believe that we should do everything we can to protect them. 
(269 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
the protection of wild animals: việc bảo vệ các động vật hoang dã extinction(n): sự tuyệt chủng die out(phrv): chết hết, tuyệt chủng accommodate(v): sắp đặt (địa điểm sinh sống) 
maintain the natural balance of all life on Earth: giữ gìn sự cân bằng tự nhiên của mọi sự sống trên Trái Đất. 
 
Sample essay 36 
These days more fathers stay at home and take care of their children while mothers go out to work. What could be the reasons for this? Do you think it is a positive or a negative development? 
It is true that men are increasingly likely to take on the role of a househusband, while more women than ever are the breadwinners in their families. There could be several reasons for this, and I consider it to be a very positive trend. 
In recent years, parents have had to adapt to various changes in our societies. Equal rights movements have made great progress, and it has become normal for women to gain qualifications and pursue a career. It has also become socially acceptable for men to stay at home and look after their children. At the same time, the rising cost of living has meant that both marriage partners usually need to work and save money before starting a family. Therefore, when couples have children, they may decide who works and who stays at home depending on the personal preference of each partner, or based on which partner earns more money. 
In my view, the changes described above should be seen as progress. We should be happy to live in a society in which men and women have equal opportunities, and in which women are not put under pressure to sacrifice their careers. Equally, it seems only fair that men should be free to leave their jobs in order to assume childcare responsibilities if this is what they wish to do. Couples should be left to make their own decisions about which parental role each partner takes, according to their particular circumstances and needs. 
In conclusion, the changing roles of men and women in the family are a result of wider changes in society, and I believe that these developments are desirable. 
(274 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
househusband: người chồng nội trợ breadwinner: trụ cột gia đình 
equal rights movements: các phong trào đòi quyền bình đẳng progress(n): sự phát triển, tiến trình phát triển sacrifice one’s careers: hy sinh sự nghiệp 
assume childcare responsibilities: đảm nhiệm trách nhiệm chăm sóc con cái 
 
Sample essay 37 
Some people think that strict punishments for driving offences are the key to reducing traffic accidents. Others, however, believe that other measures would be more effective in improving road safety. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion. 
People have differing views with regard to the question of how to make our roads safer. In my view, both punishments and a range of other measures can be used together to promote better driving habits. 
On the one hand, strict punishments can certainly help to encourage people to drive more safely. Penalties for dangerous drivers can act as a deterrent, meaning that people avoid repeating the same offence. There are various types of driving penalty, such as small fines, licence suspension, driver awareness courses, and even prison sentences. The aim of these punishments is to show dangerous drivers that their actions have negative consequences. As a result, we would hope that drivers become more disciplined and alert, and that they follow the rules more carefully. 
On the other hand, I believe that safe driving can be promoted in several different ways that do not punish drivers. Firstly, it is vitally important to educate people properly before they start to drive, and this could be done in schools or even as part of an extended or more difficult driving test. Secondly, more attention could be paid to safe road design. For example, signs can be used to warn people, speed bumps and road bends can be added to calm traffic, and speed cameras can help to deter people from driving too quickly. Finally, governments or local councils could reduce road accidents by investing in better public transport, which would mean that fewer people would need to travel by car. 
In conclusion, while punishments can help to prevent bad driving, I believe that other road safety measures should also be introduced. 
(269 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
strict punishments: những hình phạt nặng act as a deterrent: như một tác nhân ngăn cản licence suspension: thu bằng lái 
deter sb from doing sth: ngăn cản ai khỏi việc làm gì  
 
Sample essay 38 
Many people prefer to watch foreign films rather than locally produced films. Why could this be? 
Should governments give more financial support to local film industries? It is true that foreign films are more popular in many countries than domestically produced films. There could be several reasons why this is the case, and I believe that governments should promote local film-making by subsidising the industry. There are various reasons why many people find foreign films more enjoyable than the films produced in their own countries. Firstly, the established film industries in certain countries have huge budgets for action, special effects and to shoot scenes in spectacular locations. Hollywood blockbusters like ‘Avatar’ or the James Bond films are examples of such productions, and their global appeal is undeniable. Another reason why these big-budget films are so successful is that they often star the most famous actors and actresses, and they are made by the most accomplished producers and directors. The poor quality, low-budget filmmaking in many countries suffers in comparison. 
In my view, governments should support local film industries financially. In every country, there may be talented amateur film-makers who just need to be given the opportunity to prove themselves. To compete with big-budget productions from overseas, these people need money to pay for film crews, actors and a host of other costs related to producing high-quality films. If governments did help with these costs, they would see an increase in employment in the film industry, income from film sales, and perhaps even a rise in tourist numbers. New Zealand, for example, has seen an increase in tourism related to the 'Lord of the Rings' films, which were partly funded by government subsidies. 
In conclusion, I believe that increased financial support could help to raise the quality of locally made films and allow them to compete with the foreign productions that currently dominate the market. 
(294 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
domestically produced films: phim sản xuất trong nước 
established film industries: ngành công nghiệp sản xuất phim lâu đời và có tiếng tăm 
blockbusters: phim bom tấn 
big-budget films: những bộ phim có kinh phí sản xuất lớn accomplished(adj): nổi tiếng, thành công 
low-budget filmmaking: sản xuất phim với kinh phí thấp dominate(v): thống trị 
 
Sample essay 39 
The older generations tend to have very traditional ideas about how people should live, think and behave. However, some people believe that these ideas are not helpful in preparing younger generations for modern life. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this view? 
It is true that many older people believe in traditional values that often seem incompatible with the needs of younger people. While I agree that some traditional ideas are outdated, I believe that others are still useful and should not be forgotten. 
On the one hand, many of the ideas that elderly people have about life are becoming less relevant for younger people. In the past, for example, people were advised to learn a profession and find a secure job for life, but today’s workers expect much more variety and diversity from their careers. At the same time, the ‘rules’ around relationships are being eroded as young adults make their own choices about who and when to marry. But perhaps the greatest disparity between the generations can be seen in their attitudes towards gender roles. The traditional roles of men and women, as breadwinners and housewives, are no longer accepted as necessary or appropriate by most younger people. 
On the other hand, some traditional views and values are certainly applicable to the modern world. For example, older generations attach great importance to working hard, doing one’s best, and taking pride in one’s work, and these behaviours can surely benefit young people as they enter today’s competitive job market. Other characteristics that are perhaps seen as traditional are politeness and good manners. In our globalised world, young adults can expect to come into contact with people from a huge variety of backgrounds, and it is more important than ever to treat others with respect. Finally, I believe that young people would lead happier lives if they had a more ‘old-fashioned’ sense of community and neighbourliness. 
In conclusion, although the views of older people may sometimes seem unhelpful in today’s world, we should not dismiss all traditional ideas as irrelevant. 
(299 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
be incompatible with: tương thích, phù hợp outdated(adj): lỗi thời relevant(adj): liên quan erode(v): xói mòn, làm ăn mòn 
breadwinners and housewives: trụ cột gia đình và người nội trợ 
applicable(adj): áp dụng được attach(v): gán với 
sense of community and neighbourliness: tính cộng đồng và tình làng nghĩa xóm 
 
Sample essay 40 
Smoking can cause serious illnesses and should be made illegal. To what extent do you agree? 
There are clear arguments for banning smoking, based largely on health, but there is perhaps a stronger case to be made for maintaining the current situation, as will now be explained. 
The most important factor for keeping smoking legal is that the decision to smoke is not something that should be controlled by the government, but by the individuals. If a person decides to smoke, they do so of their own free will and this should be respected, as it is the government's role to advise against harmful practices, but ultimately not to make decisions for its citizens. 
The other reason for allowing smoking is that by making laws against it is more likely to result in the sale of tobacco moving to the black market, and consequently increasing the level of associated crime. There will still be people who cannot overcome their addiction, and will search for any means available to access cigarettes. A clear example of this reaction can be seen in the illegal sale of other drugs such as cocaine and marijuana. Obviously, there is the fact that smoking is known to have adverse health effects on both the smoker and those around them who are affecting by passive smoking. Yet there are other lifestyle choices that also have a negative impact, such as fast food and alcohol, and banning these items would restrict the choice available to the consumers. 
In conclusion, the decision to ban smoking, although having some advantages, would be more likely to have an overall negative effect. It would therefore be better would be for the government to continue campaigns that educate people about the potential dangers of the habit. 
(278 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
do something on one’s free will: tự ý mình làm điều gì practice(n): hành vi 
adverse health effects: những tác hại xấu về sức khoẻ passive smoking: hút thuốc gián tiếp restrict(v): giới hạn 
 
Sample essay 41 
We no longer need to have animals kept in zoos, so zoos should be closed. Do you agree or disagree? 
Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience. 
There has long been an argument against maintaining zoos in which animals are kept away from their natural habitat, and there is strong evidence to suggest that technology has developed to a point where such institutions are no longer needed, as will now be argued. 
Traditionally, the principal argument voiced by those who wish to retain zoos was that it allowed children and adults to see animals which they more than likely would not have had a chance to do if this had required visiting the creature's natural environment. Yet there are now online videos and websites where these animals can be seen in high definition, therefore no longer needing to go to enclosures to see the animals. This is clearly evident by the declining number of visitors in recent years. 
In addition, there are many cases in which animals held in captivity are not well cared for and are used solely to exploit them for profit. In some rare cases, the animals can suffer from neglect or malnutrition, and rather than being kept healthy are simply replaced when they are no longer of any value. Granted, there are situations in which endangered species are protected and their numbers allowed to rebuild by housing them in the security of a zoo. However, in most cases the same effect is better achieved by using more open plan wildlife parks rather than traditional caged enclosures. 
In sum, the factors which first led to the creation of zoos have been reduced by the ability of technology, so unless there is some advantage for the species itself, then the use of zoos should no longer be supported. 
(273 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ keep away from: giữ khỏi cái gì voice(v): lên tiếng enclosure(n): khu khép kín be held in captivity: giam giữ wildlife parks: các công viên hoang dã 
 	 
Sample essay 42 
In many countries, people do not recycle their rubbish as much as they could. Why do you think this is? What can be done to change this? 
With an increasing world population and subsequent environmental concerns, it is important to dispose of trash in an eco-friendly manner, yet there are a significant number of places around the world that fail to do so. 
There are a number of reasons that mean that recycling is not done as effectively as it could, the primary problem being the attitude of the general public. Lethargy or lack of knowledge leads people to throw all of their rubbish into one place, meaning that material that could have been sorted and reused is buried in landfills. In the UK, for example, over 20 million tonnes of waste is buried whilst less than 1 percent of that amount is actively recycled. There is also the matter of availability, as there are situations in which recycling facilities are either extremely limited or nonexistent. 
In order to combat these issues, the first step would be educating the general public about the facts of waste disposal and recycling, perhaps even enforcing participation by levying a fine against those who do not separate their rubbish into different types. Hand in hand with this, making recycling centres more available would also help, or perhaps adopting a system used in some Asian countries where households are given a number of different containers into which to sort their rubbish for collection. 
Overall, it seems that a change of attitude is needed as well as more resources to manage different recyclable materials. This can be achieved through a combination of education and penalties, as well as ensuring better access to facilities. 
(261 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ dispose of trash: loại bỏ rác thải lethargy(n): sự thiếu hụt, sự thờ ơ recycling facilities: các cơ sở tái chế combat(v): đối mặt levy a fine: áp đặt xử phạt 
a change of attitude: sự thay đổi về thái độ hoặc cách nhìn nhận 
 
Sample essay 43 
In some countries, people are forced to retire when they reach a certain age. What are the advantages and disadvantages of this? 
Compulsory retirement is common in many countries when members of the workforce reach 65 or 70, and this has both advantages and downsides, as will now be considered. 
The main advantage of requiring people to leave their job at a certain age is that it provides opportunities for younger members of staff to join the workforce, often meaning that companies benefit from having lower wages to pay for the new recruits and also having younger, potentially more dynamic employees. This in turn could well give the company the required boost to continue being profitable. 
Another advantage is that some older people may choose to keep working more out of habit than enjoyment, and therefore a mandatory retirement may encourage them to enjoy their life more, having the free time to engage in hobbies and interests such as gardening, which they may not have previously had time for up to that point. 
Yet there are significant disadvantages in forced retirement. Older staff members often have more experience, and may have no desire to leave their job. Requiring them to leave could mean a skill shortage for the company as well as a feeling of discontent from the employee. Added to that is the rising number of older people and the subsequent drain on resources if they are not working; if there are more elderly people on pensions or other benefits, the increased tax burden falls on the younger generation. 
In conclusion, there are both social and economic benefits in allowing older people to remain in employment if so desired, so compulsory retirement would not be recommended. 
(266 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ workforce(n): lực lượng lao động dynamic(adj): năng động boost(n): lực thúc đẩy out of habit: vì thói quen mandatory(adj): bắt buộc engage in: tham gia vào  
feeling of discontent: cảm giác bất mãn drain(n): sự chảy ra, sự mất đi fall on: đổ lên  
 
Sample essay 44 
In many countries, schoolchildren are required to wear school uniforms. Do you think this should this be enforced in all schools? 
In many countries, pupils are required to wear uniforms when attending school, and I believe this is something that should be enforced for the following reasons. Primarily, students, especially those in their teenagers years, are under pressure both academically and socially; insisting on a standardised uniform within the school alleviates some of this as it means that the student does not have to worry about whether their peers think that they are dressed well or in the latest fashions. This has the added advantage for those from lower income families who may simply not be able to afford the clothes worn by those from more affluent families. Not only does it remove the social pressure, but wearing a school uniform also has a psychological advantage, as the student is dressed in the mode of attire used for study. Much like wearing a suit and tie may signal going to work for many people, wearing a school uniform prepares the child for the day of learning. However, this perhaps works best for younger students. By age 16 or 17, it may be appropriate for the student to wear more casual clothing when they reach their later teens, as the idea of 'conforming' by wearing a uniform could discourage the student from pursuing further education and this is often the time in which young adults are looking to establish their own clear identity. It is at this point that it may be more productive to allow more relaxed clothing such as jeans. 
In conclusion, although a school uniform does have advantages at certain stages of a student's academic career, there is also a time when the enforcement of a standardised set of clothing may be counterproductive. 

(282 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ be under pressure: dưới áp lực standardised uniform: đồng phục tiêu chuẩn alleviate(v): xoa dịu, làm giảm nhẹ 
lower income families: những gia đình có thu nhập thấp hơn attire(n): bộ trang phục discourage(v): làm nản lòng 
establish one’s identity: hình thành sự khác biệt hay bản sắc cá nhân 
 
Sample essay 45 
Some people think that social skills are as important as academic qualifications. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
Traditionally, academic achievements are often regarded as an indispensable factor for success. However, there are a handful of individuals hold the belief that the art of social interaction also shares equal importance in determining one’s success in life. My sentiment is on par with this viewpoint, and some of my good grounds will be presented in the essay below. 
It is conspicuous that academic qualifications are of great significance when comes to seeking employment. Undoubtedly, academic qualifications reflect a person’s educational background and personal experiences. This usually lays a foundation for an overall evaluation of any candidate. Based on what is written and listed in those certificates and degrees, recruiters would select the most appropriate one to join their organizations. In other words, educational achievements can exert a tremendous impact on the judgment of the employers who are looking for potential white-collar workers. 
Simultaneously, it cannot be denied that the art of social interaction plays a pivotal role in one’s success as well. In actual fact, in this day and age, having a high level of social skills is considered to be a strength in the workplace. This is due to the fact that managers often put an emphasis on the ability of coordination, cooperation, and communication to enhance efficiency. A salient example of this is the solidarity of the staff within an office, which would foster a positive attitude towards work and a sense of community, leading to a sense of self-satisfaction from their job. 
To conclude, in a society in which people are becoming increasingly interdependent, one cannot succeed with mere qualifications. Thus, social interaction paves the way for a person to advance in his career as well. 

(280 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ be regarded as: được đánh giá là  indispensable(adj): không thể thiếu 
the art of social interaction: nghệ thuật tương tác xã hội share equal importance: có cùng sự quan trọng 
My sentiment is on par with: Quan điểm của tôi giống với conspicuous(adj): rõ ràng 
educational background: nền tảng học vấn exert a tremendous impact on: tạo một tác động lớn lên pivotal(adj): cực kỳ quan trọng put an emphasis: đặt nặng 
foster a positive attitude: nuôi dưỡng một thái độ tích cực self-satisfaction(n): sự tự thoả mãn interdependent(adj): phụ thuộc lẫn nhau 
 
Sample essay 46 
In many cities, there are areas of land that are used as parks. With increasing population levels, these areas would be better used to provide more housing. Do you agree or disagree? 
In many major metropolitan areas, land is set aside for all members of the public to enjoy, and this is something that should remain as will now be discussed. The main reason in support of retaining parkland is that it provides a communal area for people who may otherwise live in apartments or small houses without access to a garden. It has been well documented that time spent outdoors has clear health benefits, not only for exercise and fresh air, but also for mental health. Another reason is that increasing populations in urban areas has a number of negative subsidiary effects, such as the pressure on sanitation and clean water supplies. Replacing parks with more housing will only further compound this problem. In Mexico City, for example, the population is so dense that in many areas, delivery of fresh water supplies is under extreme pressure. On a related note, there is also an environmental advantage in having parkland, as it is a source of oxygen production which may otherwise be lacking in urban areas. 
Admittedly, the level of the population relocating to urban areas in increasing for employment reasons as there are often more jobs available, and for this to be possible, additional land will need to be used for housing and this needs to be sourced near the place of work to avoid excess travel. However, it is arguable that it would be better to create larger suburbs than overcrowd centre of cities. Overall, it is clear that there are no substantial advantages in removing these green areas, and given their advantages, they should be retained, and even expanded, wherever possible. 

(273 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ set aside: dẹp sang một bên parkland(n): khu vực nhiều cây cối communal area: khu vực công cộng 
pressure on sanitation and clean water supplies: áp lực lên vệ sinh và các nguồn nước sạch 
compound this problem: làm vấn đề nặng nề hơn overcrowd(adj): đông đúc quá mức 
 
Sample essay 47 
We have become a disposable society, preferring to buy new products rather than repair existing items. Why do you think this is? How can this trend be reversed? 
It has become common not to try to extend the life of items but rather to purchase replacements, and this can be attributed to a number of social changes, as will now be presented along with some thoughts on how this attitude can be altered. 
Of the many reasons why society in general opts not to repair items, perhaps the most influential is changes in technology. Modernised production methods allow goods to be mass produced at a lower cost, but often at the expense of quality; this means that although they may not have the durability of handmade items, they are cheaper and thus can be replaced. In addition, evolutions in technology are now rapid, and the impulse to own the latest gadget encourages purchasers to continually buy new items. A clear indication of this is mobile phones, where in the last decade new features and abilities are released constantly. 
To address this, there are a number of potential approaches. One is that governments could raise the level of tax on brand new items whilst lowering the taxation on repair shops, therefore supporting those who are happy with their existing technology and penalising those who constantly race to acquire the very latest model. In turn, this would encourage the companies producing such items to build them in a way that new developments can be incorporated into it, rather than requiring it to be disposed of. 
To conclude, it is only by a change in attitude that we can decrease the continued consumption of new items and increase the retention of those that may need some repair. 
(273 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
extend the life of items: kéo dài tuổi thọ của sản phẩm purchase replacements: mua sản phẩm thay thế 
modernised production methods: phương pháp sản xuất hiện đại mass produce: sản xuất hàng loạt, sản xuất số lượng lớn durability(n): sự bền (của sản phẩm) impulse(n): hưng phấn, hứng  
penalise(v): đưa ai vào tình thế bất lợi be incorporated into: được kết hợp vào dispose of: vứt bỏ 
change in attitude: sự thay đổi về nhận thức, thái độ 
decrease the continued consumption: giảm thiểu sự tiêu thụ đang tăng dần retention(n): sự giữ lại 
 
Sample essay 48 
It is very important for people to be able to speak more than one language. Therefore, children should start learning a foreign language as young as possible. Do you agree or disagree? 
Increasing globalisation has made it almost essential for many people to learn more than their native tongue so they can converse with people from other countries, and there are strong arguments to be made in support of acquiring second or even third languages as a young child, as will now be considered. Perhaps the most persuasive reason is that children have a far better ability to learn when young compared to later on in life. Information is more readily absorbed and put into practice, and younger children are able to retain what they are taught. It has also been proven that when learning a language at a young age, a child is able to better pronounce words or sounds that may be absent in their own language. In addition, younger children also have fewer external concerns to contend with. To illustrate, a parent with a job, bills and the responsibilities of looking after their children will be less able to focus on learning a new language compared to a child who is simply attending school. The younger the better, as this also means that they are not yet overwhelmed with homework and other preoccupations common to students in their early and mid teens. 
Granted, there is an argument that attempting to learn an additional language at an early age may result in the child confusing the primary and secondary language, meaning they may not have a good a grasp of their home language as other children. However, this can be negated by having specific and separate classes for each language, improving skills in both. 
In conclusion, assuming the classes are well taught, then the advantages outweigh the negatives. 
(278 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ converse with: nói chuyện với in support of: ủng hộ absorb(v): hấp thụ 
put into practice: đưa vào thực tiễn be overwhelmed with: choáng ngợp với cái gì 
confuse the primary and secondary language: lẫn lộn giữa tiếng mẹ đẻ và ngôn ngữ thứ hai 
have a good a grasp: nắm chắc kiến thức nào đó negate: vô hiệu hoá 
 
 	 
Sample essay 49 
Driving a car is a valuable skill and should therefore be taught in schools. Do you agree or disagree? 
There are many important life skills such as the ability to operate a vehicle that are developed both through childhood and early adulthood, but teaching these should not necessarily be left to education departments, as will now be argued. The principal provider of knowledge to a child should be the parent, and although more academic subjects such as science and languages should be left to professionals, abilities like driving and swimming are best taught by parents, at least initially. If the parent feels they are not suited to the task, or the law in that country does not allow parents to teach their children to drive, then a driving instructor should be sought, not a school. In addition, it could be argued that although operating a car is a useful skill, it is not essential and should be something that each individual decides rather than being a compulsory part of their education. Other subjects which provide a more rounded education should be emphasised, as this will allow the student to be able to find a position of employment more easily once they graduate from school or further studies. However, an argument could be made that the ability to drive could be required in an emergency situation, and therefore should be taught. Yet situations where this would actually be required would be rare, and less valuable than other skills such as first aid. 
To conclude, it would be better for schools to focus on academic topics, leaving the parents or the student to decide when and how to learn other skills like driving. 
(261 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
principal provider of knowledge: người truyền đạt kiến thức chính be suited to: phù hợp với compulsory(adj): bắt buộc 
rounded education: nền giáo dục toàn diện emphasise(v): nhấn mạnh 
academic topics: các chuyên đề học thuật 
 
Sample essay 50 
Compared to previous generations, an increasing number of people are traveling overseas for holidays. Why is this? Is this a positive or negative trend? 
There are a number of factors which explain the rising tendency for people to take trips overseas for pleasure, and this has both advantages and disadvantages as will now be discussed. 
Innovations in technology have made overseas travel not only faster, but also more accessible for those on a limited budget, meaning that in some cases a family can holiday in a different country with less inconvenience and a better price than staying in their home country. A flight from the UK to Spain, for example, can be accomplished in less time than it takes to get from one side of England to the other. 
One of the clearest advantages here is that it gives people the opportunity to experience different cultures and customs, giving a broader perspective of the world. By visiting other countries, people will understand more about other cultures, and can learn to appreciate the cultural differences that exist. There are also benefits for the holiday itself, as many people tend to holiday in destinations that have better weather. 
However, there are disadvantages for the country, as citizens are spending their money overseas rather than in the domestic market. However, this is negated by the fact that although people leave their own country for a holiday, other people visit their country for the same reason. In New Zealand, for example, money spent overseas by people leaving the country is replaced by those who visit the country for their holiday. 
To conclude, advances in technology have given the consumer more choice in overseas holidays, and this has both positive and negative ramifications. 
(266 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ rising tendency: xu hướng nổi lên 
Innovations in technology: những tiến bộ trong công nghệ give a broader perspective: mang lại một cái nhìn rộng hơn 
appreciate the cultural differences: nhận biết những sự khác biệt về văn hoá 
 
Sample essay 51 
In some countries, people who are unemployed receive a sum of money each week in the form of a benefit. While some support this, other people believe that this money should not be given. Discuss both points of view and give you own point of view. 
The payment of a benefit for those who are out of work is a sensitive issue with strong opinions for and against. This essay will now examine both sides of the argument and present a final conclusion. 
Those in favour of this financial support argue that in some cases, it is not the fault of the unemployed person, and that the assistance is needed for them to survive while they continue to look for work. Without this, there is the potential concern that crime would increase due to a lack of alternatives. To illustrate, if a parent with dependent children could not find work and had no other help, they would have little option but to resort to theft to prevent their children from going hungry. On the other hand, there are those that argue that paying someone who does not work simply encourages people to remain unemployed, especially when the alternative could be a relatively low paid job. There are situations where people are simply not interested in finding a position of employment as it offers very little additional money compared to doing nothing at home and receiving free handouts. This situation could escalate as people who are on a low income may resent paying a portion of their tax payments to support those who make little or no effort to find employment. 
Considering both points of view, it seems that a compromise may be the best solution. Payment of the unemployment benefit should be limited to a short period of time, after which the amount received should be progressively reduced. This would encourage those receiving the benefit to be more proactive when looking for work. 
(277 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ be out of work: thất nghiệp 
assistance(n): sự giúp đỡ 
resort to: tìm đến cái gì như là lựa chọn cuối cùng remain unemployed: giữ nguyên tình trạng thất nghiệp escalate(v): leo thang 
Considering both points of view: Khi cân nhắc cả hai quan điểm proactive(adj): chủ động 
 
Sample essay 52 
Teenagers are spending an increasing amount of time on the Internet, and this is having a negative effect on their social skills. 
Do you agree or disagree? 
It is not uncommon these days for younger people to spend an hour or more a day online, and although this does detract from time spent taking to family members, it is not necessarily affecting their social development as will now be discussed. 
The primary reason to disagree with the statement is that a considerable amount of time that youngsters are on the internet is actually spent on social networking sites such as Facebook. As these sites are specifically designed for social purposes, the argument that social skills are declining would appear to be invalid. It is only when the time online is spent playing single player games or generally surfing for entertainment without interacting with others online that this could be considered unsociable. 
In addition, an increasing dependence on the Internet for a broad range of tasks from completing homework and studies to checking bank balances and searching for employment means that being online is often simply an alternative manner of working or completing necessary chores, and should not be considered related to social skills at all. Admittedly, if too much time is spent online playing games or looking at websites, then there is the potential for surfers to become less able to interact with people directly. However, this can be negated by ensuring that time online is limited to a reasonable amount, and can even be controlled by using technology that actively records the amount of time online. 
To sum up, it is not that the Internet is causing us to become less sociable, it is simply that the nature of social interaction is changing. 
(267 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
detract from: làm chệch hướng, làm xao nhãng social networking sites: các trang web mạng xã hội invalid(adj): vô lý 
unsociable(adj): không giao tiếp xã hội surfer(n): người lướt web 
 
Sample essay 53 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of having older people living in the family home? 
Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience. 
In many traditional cultures, members of the same family will live together from childhood to old age. In many cases, older family members living at home is a trend which has both positive and negative aspects. 
A significant point in favour of this is that it provides a good support network for parents, both of whom may work outside of the home. Having grandparents on hand to look after the children can potentially provide a more stable environment as the child will have a familiar face at home until the parents have finished working. The influence of the grandparents extends beyond simple babysitting, however. They are able to provide a source of advice and knowledge that can greatly benefit all members of the family on a range of subjects, especially for when there are new born babies in the home as this can be a stressful time for new parents. 
There are, of course, also disadvantages in having older people at home. There is the issue of space, as the family home may not be big enough to accommodate everyone comfortably. There is also the issue of deciding which members of the family should live together, as both the husband and wife may both have living parents. 
To conclude, there are clear positives and negatives to having older members of the family living in the same house. Although at times there may be typical frictions when people live together, this is arguably outweighed by the advantages of the support and knowledge older people are able to offer. 
(256 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ in favour of: ủng hộ cho extend(v): kéo dài, trải dài babysitting: trông trẻ accommodate(v): chứa  friction(n): rạn nứt 
 
Sample essay 54 
Medical procedures for cosmetic purposes should not be allowed. Do you agree or disagree? 
There is a rising tendency for people of all ages to have surgery to improve their appearance, although there are a number of arguments against this as will now be examined. 
The main reason that such procedures should be discouraged is that people should be more confident in themselves, and not be swayed by images in the media. People are constantly bombarded with pictures of people looking glamorous, but these photos have often been digitally altered for the best effect. Many young people, however, suffer from low self- esteem and feel that through operations they could look like the celebrities they see. 
Another argument against cosmetic procedures is that this diverts resources from more necessary surgeries, which in turn causes longer delays for those in desperate need. Even though such procedures may be done privately, it still requires the attendance of medical staff that would perhaps otherwise be available to the public health system. This can be seen in the waiting lists in the UK, for example, where it can take several months or longer to have a hip replacement operation. 
However, there are situations when cosmetic surgery can vastly improve the patient's quality of life, such as those who have suffered significant burns or other disfigurements. There are many examples of people for whom surgical work has allowed them to rebuild their life in ways which would have been exceptionally difficult or impossible otherwise. 
To conclude, it would perhaps be better if cosmetic surgery was discouraged unless it offered significant improvements to the patient's quality of life, and should perhaps also be limited to people between a certain age. 
(256 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
xtend(v): kéo dài, trải dài babysitting: trông trẻ accomm

Sample essay 55 
Traditional methods of food preparation are becoming less popular. Why do you think this is? 
Meals made in an old fashion are not as common these days for a number of different reasons, as will now be explained. 
The primary factor is that more modern variants of traditional dishes are often less time consuming to prepare. It is not uncommon for both parents to work outside of the home, meaning that there is less opportunity for people to spend the hours required in shopping, preparing and cooking, so opting for a quick and easy meal is often preferred. 
Another significant cause for this decline is that the skills that in previous generations were handed down from parents to children are no longer considered as valuable, and as such, many younger people simply lack the required knowledge. Already many traditional skills such as bread making are no longer passed on, and this is illustrated in the rising consumption of convenience food among younger people. 
A third contributor to the fall in traditional food preparation is also related to the modern global nature of most societies. Historically, traditional meals were common because the required ingredients were all that was available locally. These days, however, most large cities have shops and restaurants with food from all over the globe. A clear example of this influence is in the United Kingdom, where the most popular takeaway food is Indian cuisine. 
Ultimately, there are many factors both societal and economic that are leading to the decline in traditional meals, and this is a trend that is likely to continue into the future. 
(254 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
variants of traditional dishes: các loại món ăn truyền thống opt for: chọn lựa hand down: truyền lại 
the rising consumption of convenience food: sự gia tăng trong việc tiêu thụ đồ ăn nhanh 
 	 
Sample essay 56 
Traffic problems are increasing in most cities. What can be done about this? 
Increasing urban populations have led to a corresponding increase in the number of vehicles on the road, resulting in rising congestion in city centres. There are a number of potential solutions to the problem, as will now be discussed. Perhaps the first step to take would be to improve the availability of public transport and install bus lanes throughout the city. Whilst this would, in the short term, increase the pressure on the roads, it is likely to result in more people using public transport and leaving their vehicles at home. One way of encouraging people to adopt buses and trains is to lower the price and expand the timetable. Following that, local councils or the government could make it more difficult for car drivers to use their car by either charging a levy or only allowing certain vehicles in city areas on certain days. A similar system has been running in London for some time, and has resulted in fewer vehicles on the roads. An alternative idea, one which is more extreme than levies and selective use, is to simply prevent private passenger vehicles from entering the city at all. By having only public transport options, there would be no problem with congestion and would allow for more pedestrian areas in the metropolitan areas. 
To sum up, there are a range of options available to reduce the number of cars in the centre of cities, but ultimately they all rely on an increased public transport system and encouraging drivers and their passengers to use it. 
(256 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ corresponding(adj): tương ứng congestion(n): sự tắc nghẽn 
improve the availability of public transport: cải thiện sự có sẵn của hệ thống giao thông công cộng 
expand the timetable: mở rộng lịch trình chuyến đi pedestrian areas: các khu vực dành riêng cho người đi bộ 
 
Sample essay 57 
Studying business or science related subjects at university level is more important that arts related courses like literature. Do you agree or disagree? 
When considering tertiary level education, there is a school of thought that believes that studying more practical topics such as commerce, physics or biology is more valuable to society than spending time focussed on novels and other literary subjects. However, this argument is flawed for a number of reasons as will now be presented. 
Although certain fields of study lead more directly into a position of employment, university education is valuable not only for the education learned but also as an indication that the person has the ability to learn, and as such it is irrelevant whether it is a career based course of study or something more intangible, like the arts. It suggests to potential employers that person can learn new skills, and this is often as important as what is already known. 
Moreover, those that complete an arts related degree could potentially go on to be writers, poets or playwrights, for example, and thus contribute to society in a cultural form rather than financially or technologically. The opinion that the writer is of less worth than the scientist is very biased, especially when it comes to a contribution to society. 
Admittedly, there is the point that science and business related education can financially benefit a country, whereas art and literature does not offer the same value economically. However, a country's wealth is not calculated in financial terms alone. 
In sum, therefore, both types of education offer advantages to the country, so neither should be preference over the other as both have a degree of value to society. 
(259 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
tertiary level education: giáo dục cấp cao flawed(adj): còn thiếu sót, lỗ hổng intangible(adj): không sờ thấy được, trừu tượng calculate(v): tính toán 
preference(n): việc thích cái này hơn cái khác  
 
Sample essay 58 
People who start a university course but do not complete it should be fined. Do you agree or disagree? 
Of the number of undergraduates that begin a course of tertiary study, there is a percentage of those that do not finish the course, but the argument that they should therefore be financially penalised is riddled with potential problems. 
It needs to be considered first of all what motivated the student to leave their studies before they have graduated. If the decision was made due to financial constraints, then clearly adding an additional fine is simply adding to the pressure. For example, there are many older people who decide to go back to university but may already have a mortgage and dependent children, and may consequently find that their income is insufficient to cover their needs. 
Moreover, rather than attempting to make the student pay, it might be better to consider whether the student was actually given sufficient support during their studies. There are situations where the student may feel that they are not following the course and are unable complete the required assignments, and therefore leave the course. Retention rates may be improved if there were personal tutors on hand to offer advice to those students who are losing confidence in their ability to remain on the course. 
On the other hand, there is an argument that the risk of a penalty would dissuade people from starting courses that they were not particularly motivated to complete in the first place. 
In conclusion, therefore, although the idea of being charged for non completion of a course would perhaps reduce the number of uncommitted enrolments, it is not an advisable solution for genuine students. 
(263 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
be riddled with: tràn đầy lỗ hổng hoặc rắc rối financial constraints: những ràng buộc tài chính insufficient(adj): không đủ lose confidence: mất sự tự tin 
dissuade sb from doing sth: thuyết phục ai không làm gì 
uncommitted enrolments: những người học không có sự cam kết 
 
Sample essay 59 
Computers have changed the way people study. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using computers as study aids? 
Advancements in technology have made a significant difference to the way in which people are able to learn, and though this is mostly beneficial, there are also some negative aspects that will also be considered. 
Beginning with the positive points, the ability to work on assessments and coursework on a computer means that work can be saved safely and transported from place to place. Before the arrival of computers, students traditionally had files and folders with their course notes, and this took up a considerable amount of room and was difficult to keep track of; now, complete lecture notes and much more can be stored on a flash drive that can be easily put in a pocket or bag. In addition, lectures and learning material can be made available online, allowing for a multimedia educational environment. This is likely to engage a wider range of students as it has the ability to cater for a wider range of learning styles. For example, some students study best by repeatedly listening to a teacher, and this can now be achieved more conveniently by having videos available. 
On the downside, there are occasions where information stored digitally can be deleted, overwritten or corrupted, all situations that do not occur on traditional paper based work. There is also the concern that material can be garnered from the Internet and passed off as the students own work, making plagiarism a potential issue. However, the concept of plagiarism has long been a problem, and there are computer programs available today that will pinpoint the source of non original work. 
In conclusion, although there are potential disadvantages, they are outweighed by the positives. 
(276 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
work on assessments and coursework on a computer: làm các dự án hoặc bài tập trên máy tính 
arrival(n): sự đến, sự xuất hiện 
take up a considerable amount of room: chiếm diện tích khá lớn  keep track of: theo dõi cái gì  
be stored on a flash drive: được lưu trữ trong USB 
multimedia educational environment: môi trường giáo dục đa phương tiện cater for: cung ứng, cung cấp cho cái gì  digitally(adj): số hoá 
be overwritten or corrupted: bị viết đè lên hoặc làm hỏng file garner(v): thu thập pass off: truyền lại plagiarism(n): việc đạo văn pinpoint(v): xác định 
 
Sample essay 60 
Some of the methods used in advertising are unethical and unacceptable in today’s society. To what extent do you agree with this view? 
The world that we live in today is dominated by advertising. Adverts are on television, on the World Wide Web, in the street and even on our mobile phones. However, many of the strategies used to sell a product or service can be considered immoral or unacceptable. 
To begin with, the fact that we cannot escape from advertising is a significant cause for complaint. Constant images and signs wherever we look can be very intrusive and irritating at times. Take for example advertising on the mobile phone. With the latest technology mobile companies are now able to send advertising messages via SMS to consumer’s phones whenever they choose. Although we expect adverts in numerous situations, it now seems that there are very few places we can actually avoid them. 
A further aspect of advertising that I would consider unethical is the way that it encourages people to buy products they may not need or cannot afford. Children and young people in particular are influenced by adverts showing the latest toys, clothing or music and this can put enormous pressure on the parents to buy these products. In addition, the advertising of tobacco products and alcohol has long been a controversial issue, but cigarette adverts have only recently been banned in many countries. It is quite possible that alcohol adverts encourage excessive consumption and underage drinking, yet restrictions have not been placed on this type of advertising in the same way as smoking. 
It is certainly true to say that advertising is an everyday feature of our lives. Therefore, people are constantly being encouraged to buy products or services that might be too expensive, unnecessary or even unhealthy. In conclusion, many aspects of advertising do appear to be morally wrong and are not acceptable in today's society. 
(296 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ be dominated: bị thống trị immoral(adj): vô đạo đức 
unacceptable(adj): không thể chấp nhận được  cause for complaint: lý do để phàn nàn intrusive(adj): xâm phạm unethical(adj): trái đạo đức 
encourage excessive consumption and underage drinking: khuyến khích việc tiêu thụ và sử dụng rượu bia cho người chưa đến tuổi 
 
 
 
Sample essay 61 
Currently there is a trend towards the use of alternative forms of medicine. However, at best these methods are ineffective, and at worst they may be dangerous. To what extent do you agree with this statement? 
Alternative medicine is not new. It is accepted that it pre-dates conventional medicine and it is still used by many people all over the world. I am not convinced that it is dangerous, and feel that both alternative and conventional medicine can be useful. 
There are several reasons why the conventional medical community is often dismissive of alternatives. Firstly, there has been little scientific research into such medicine, so there is a scarcity of evidence to support the claims of their supporters. Furthermore, people often try such treatment because of recommendations from friends, and therefore come to the therapist with a very positive attitude, which may be part of the reason for the cure. Moreover, these therapies are usually only useful for long-term, chronic conditions. Acute medical problems, such as accidental injury, often require more conventional methods. 
On the other hand, there remain strong arguments for the use of alternatives. Despite the lack of scientific proof, there is a lot of anecdotal evidence to suggest that these therapies work. In addition, far from being dangerous, they often have few or no side effects, so the worst outcome would be no change. One of the strongest arguments for the effectiveness of alternative therapies in the West is that, whilst conventional medicine is available without charge, many people are prepared to pay considerable sums for alternatives. If they were totally unhelpful, it would be surprising if this continues. 
I strongly believe that conventional medicine and alternative therapies can and should coexist. They have different strengths, and can both be used effectively to target particular medical problems. The best situation would be for alternative therapies to be used to support and complement conventional medicine. 
(280 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
pre-date: xuất hiện hoặc xảy ra trước be dismissive of: không ủng hộ, bài trừ scarcity(n): sự khan hiếm 
anecdotal(adj) mang tính cá nhân, không có chứng thực từ khoa học 
coexist(v): cùng tồn tại 
 
Sample essay 62 
Some people believe the aim of university education is to help graduates get better jobs. Others believe there are much wider benefits of university education for both individuals and society. Discuss both views and give your opinion. 
These days, more and more people are making the choice to go to university. While some people are of the opinion that the only purpose of a university education is to improve job prospects, others think that society and the individual benefit in much broader ways. 
It is certainly true that one of the main aims of university is to secure a better job. The majority of people want to improve their future career prospects and attending university is one of the best ways to do this as it increases a persons marketable skills and attractiveness to potential employers. In addition, further education is very expensive for many people, so most would not consider it if it would not provide them with a more secure future and a higher standard of living. Thus job prospects are very important. 
However, there are other benefits for individuals and society. Firstly, the independence of living away from home is a benefit because it helps the students develop better social skills and improve as a person. A case in point is that many students will have to leave their families, live in halls of residence and meet new friends. As a result, their maturity and confidence will grow enabling them to live more fulfilling lives. Secondly, society will gain from the contribution that the graduates can make to the economy. We are living in a very competitive world, so countries need educated people in order to compete and prosper. 
Therefore, I believe that although a main aim of university education is to get the best job, there are clearly further benefits. If we continue to promote and encourage university attendance, it will lead to a better future for individuals and society. 
(279 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
be of the opinion that: có quan điểm là job prospects: triển vọng nghề nghiệp 
secure a better job: giữ được một công việc tốt hơn 
increase a person’s marketable skills: phát triển các kỹ năng gây ấn tượng của ai đó 
maturity(n): sự trưởng thành prosper(v): phát triển thịnh vượng 
 
Sample essay 63 
Some people think that the best way to reduce crime is to give longer prison sentences. Others, however, believe there are better alternative ways of reducing crime. Discuss both views and give your opinion. 
Crime is a serious and growing problem in most societies. Although many people believe that the best way to tackle this is to place people in prison for longer periods, others are of the opinion that other measures will be more effective. 
There are benefits of giving offenders longer prison sentences. Firstly, spending a long time in prison provides an opportunity for the prison services to rehabilitate a prisoner. For example, someone who has committed a serious offence such as assault will need a long time in prison in order to be sure they can be re-educated not to re-offend. In addition to this, longer prison sentences will act as a deterrent for someone who is thinking of committing a crime. 
However, some people argue that leaving people in prison for a long time means that they will mix with other criminals and so their character will not improve. One alternative is community service. This gives an offender the opportunity to give something positive back to society, and so it may improve their character. Also, the government could focus its resources on the causes of crime, which would lead to less crime in the future. 
In my opinion, it is important to look at alternative methods. Many countries have lengthy prison sentences, but crime has continued to increase throughout the world, so it is clear that this is not completely effective. That said, long prison sentences should remain for those who commit serious crimes such as assault or murder, as justice for the victim and their family should take priority. 
To conclude, there are good arguments for and against long sentences, so governments must continue to research the various methods of crime reduction to ensure effective policies are in place. 
(290 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ prison sentences: án tù rehabilitate(v): hồi phục 
act as a deterrent: là rào cản ngăn chặn 
commit a crime: phạm tội community service: dịch vụ cộng đồng take priority: lên hàng đầu 
 
Sample essay 64 
Government investment in the arts, such as music and theatre, is a waste of money. Governments must invest this money in public services instead. To what extent do you agree with this statement? 
These days, the government spends a large part of its budget not only on public services, but also arts. Although I agree that it is important to spend money on public services, I do not think spending on the arts is a waste of money. There are several reasons for spending a significant amount of the government budget on public services. First and foremost, public services are the things such as hospitals, roads and schools, and these things determine the quality of life that most of us will have. For example, if the government does not spend enough money on hospitals, the health of our society may decline. Similarly, if not enough money is spent on schools, our children may not be properly educated. Also, it will be the poor in our society that will be affected more if we do not spend enough on these things because they are the ones more dependent on such services. However, this does not mean that the arts should be completely neglected. To begin, it is difficult for many arts institutions to generate much profit, so without some help from the government, many theaters and other such places may have to close. Moreover, the arts also have an important impact on our quality of life. Many people get great pleasure in going to see music and theatre performances so it is important that the government assists such institutions so that they can continue to provide entertainment to the public. 
To sum up, there are clear benefits of ensuring a large amount of investment goes into public services as this influences the quality of life for nearly all of us. That said, I do not believe spending money on the arts is a waste of money as this too provides important benefits. 
(299 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
a waste of money: sự phí phạm tiền của determine(v): quyết định 
get great pleasure in: có được niềm vui khi làm gì  
 
Sample essay 65 
Levels of youth crime are increasing rapidly in most cities around the world. What are the reasons for this, and suggest some solutions. 
Over the last few decades, many cities around the world have seen alarming increases in the levels of youth crime. This essay will discuss the reasons for this and provide some possible solutions. 
The first reason is connected with the family. In order for a child to grow up in a balanced way, it is very important that he or she is nurtured well by his or her parents. However, these days, it is often the case that children are neglected. This may be because of the fact that many parents in cities now both have to work so are often not around to give their children support when needed. Another factor is the increasing levels of poverty around the world. We have seen with globalization the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, and this inevitably means that those who are poorer will have to resort to illegal means to get what others have. Of course, this will include the children in the poorer families. 
However, there are ways to tackle such problems. Firstly, one of the ways to combat the problem is to have stricter punishments. Although, as discussed above, it can be outside factors that lead to crime, it is still important to have severe punishments to deter teenagers from crime. All too often, because they are young, the courts are too lenient. Parents also have to take more responsibility for their children’s actions. They too should be punished if their children commit crime. 
To sum up, several factors have led to increases in youth crime, but measures are available to tackle this problem. 
(267 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ alarming(adj): đáng báo động nurture(v): nuôi dưỡng 
resort to: tìm đến cái gì như là lựa chọn cuối cùng  lenient(adj): lỏng lẻo, dễ dãi 
 
Sample essay 66 
In order to solve traffic problems, governments should tax private car owners heavily and use the money to improve public transportation. What are the advantages and disadvantages of such a solution? 
Traffic congestion in many cities around the world is severe. One possible solution to this problem is to impose heavy taxes on car drivers and use this money to make public transport better. This essay will discuss the benefits and drawbacks of such a measure. 
One of the first benefits of such a measure is that the heavy taxes would discourage car owners from using their cars because it would become very expensive to drive. This would mean that they would begin to make use of public transport instead, thus reducing traffic problems and pollution as well. Another benefit would be that much more use would be made of public transport if it was improved. It is often the case that public transport in cities is very poor. For example, we often see old buses and trains that people would rather not use. High taxes would generate enough money to make the necessary changes. 
Nevertheless, there are drawbacks to such a solution. First and foremost, this would be a heavy burden on the car drivers. At present, taxes are already high for a lot of people, and so further taxes would only mean less money at the end of the month for most people who may have no choice but to drive every day. In addition, this type of tax would likely be set at a fixed amount. This would mean that it would hit those with less money harder, whilst the rich could likely afford it. It is therefore not a fair tax. 
To conclude, this solution is worth considering to improve the current situation, but there are advantages and disadvantages of introducing such a policy. 
(277 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ impose(v): áp (thuế) 
have no choice: không còn lựa chọn nào khác fixed amount: một khoản cố định 
 
Sample essay 67 
Overpopulation of urban areas has led to numerous problems. Identify one or two serious ones and suggest ways that governments and individuals can tackle these problems. 
Many countries of the world are currently experiencing problems caused by rapidly growing populations in urban areas, and both governments and individuals have a duty to find ways to overcome these problems. 
Overpopulation can lead to overcrowding and poor quality housing in many large cities. Poorly heated or damp housing could cause significant health problems, resulting in illness, such as bronchitis or pneumonia. Another serious consequence of overcrowding is a rising crime rate as poor living conditions may lead young people in particular to take desperate measures and turn to crime or drugs. 
In terms of solutions, I believe the government should be largely responsible. Firstly, it is vital that the state provides essential housing and healthcare for all its citizens. Secondly, setting up community projects to help foster more community spirit and help keep young people off the street is a good idea. For example, youth clubs or evening classes for teenagers would keep them occupied. Finally, more effective policing of inner city areas would also be beneficial. Naturally, individuals should also act responsibly to address these problems, and the motivation to do this would hopefully arise if the measures described above are put into place by the government. This is because it will encourage people to have more pride in their own community and improve the situation. 
Therefore, it is clear that the problems caused by overpopulation in urban areas are very serious. Yet if governments and individuals share a collective responsibility, then it may well become possible to offer some solutions. 
(254 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
overpopulation(n): tình trạng quá tải dân số poor quality housing: chất lượng nhà ở thấp bronchitis(n): bệnh viêm phế quản pneumonia(n): bệnh phổi 
rising crime rate: tỷ lệ tội phạm tăng cao foster(v): nuôi dưỡng put into place: đưa vào thực tiễn 
 
Sample essay 68 
The percentage of overweight children in western society has increased by almost 20% in the last ten years. Discuss the causes and effects of this disturbing trend. 
Over the last ten years, western societies have seen close to a 20% rise in the number of children who are overweight. This essay will discuss some reasons why this has occurred and examine the consequences of this worrying trend. The main cause of this problem is poor diet. Over the last decade there has been a prolific increase in the number of fast food restaurants. For example, on nearly every high street there is a MacDonald’s, Kentucky Fried Chicken and Pizza Hut. The food in these places has been proven to be very unhealthy, and much of the advertising is targeted at children, thus ensuring that they constitute the bulk of the customers of these establishments. However, it is not only due to eating out, but also the type of diet many children have at home. A lot of food consumed is processed food, especially with regards to ready-made meals which are a quick and easy option for parents who are working hard. 
The effects of this have been and will continue to be very serious. Firstly, there has been a large increase in health related diseases amongst children, especially diabetes. This debilitating illness means a child has to be injected with insulin for the rest of their life. Not only this, very overweight children often experience bullying from other children, which may affect their mental health. The negative stigma of being overweight may also affect self-esteem. 
To sum up, it is evident that there are several causes of obesity amongst children, and a variety of negative effects. Society must ensure steps are taken to prevent this problem from deteriorating further. 
(275 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
overweight(adj): thừa cân, béo phì poor diet: chế độ ăn ít dinh dưỡng ready-made meals: bữa ăn làm sẵn debilitating(adj): suy nhược inject with: tiêm cái gì stigma(n): suy nghĩ cổ hủ 

Sample essay 69 
As people live longer and longer, the idea of cloning human beings in order to provide spare parts is becoming a reality. The idea horrifies most people, yet it is no longer mere science fiction. 
To what extent do you agree with such a procedure? Have you any reservations? The cloning of animals has been occurring for a number of years now, and this has now opened up the possibility of cloning humans too. Although there are clear benefits to humankind of cloning to provide spare body parts, I believe it raises a number of worrying ethical issues. 
Due to breakthroughs in medical science and improved diets, people are living much longer than in the past. This, though, has brought with it problems. As people age, their organs can fail so they need replacing. If humans were cloned, their organs could then be used to replace those of sick people. It is currently the case that there are often not enough organ donors around to fulfil this need, so cloning humans would overcome the issue as there would then be a ready supply. However, for good reasons, many people view this as a worrying development. Firstly, there are religious arguments against it. It would involve creating another human and then eventually killing it in order to use its organs, which it could be argued is murder. This is obviously a sin according to religious contexts. Also, dilemmas would arise over what rights these people have, as surely they would be humans just like the rest of us. Furthermore, if we have the ability to clone humans, it has to be questioned where this cloning will end. Is it then acceptable for people to start cloning relatives or family members who have died? 
To conclude, I do not agree with this procedure due to the ethical issues and dilemmas it would create. Cloning animals has been a positive development, but this is where it should end. 
(276 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ cloning(n): việc nhân bản occur(v): xảy ra breakthrough(n): đột phá 
sin(n): tội lỗi 
dilemma(n): tình thế tiến thoái lưỡng nan 
 
Sample essay 70 
Maintaining public libraries is a waste of money since computer technology can replace their functions. Do you agree or disagree? 
Today, computer technology is becoming more and more advanced. Many people think that it is wasteful to spend money on maintaining public libraries because most of their functions can be replaced with computer technology. However, I firmly believe that library should never be disregarded by our society. On one hand, the development of computer science has brought about lots of benefits to our lives. Anyone could obtain and store a great amount of information online easily instead of going to public libraries to search for them. People can also read books on the move with their mobile devices such as iPhones, iPads, and so on. Furthermore, people do not have to remember the deadline to return the books.  
On the other hand, public libraries still have several advantages over the Internet. First, a library always plays an important role as a reliable learning resource. Individuals could get access to sufficient data for their studies when they use public libraries. Second, individuals have more chances to make new friends and exchange learning experience when studying in a library. This opportunity can rarely be found on studying in front of a computer. Compared with only studying via the Internet, students could study in a more quiet and professional environment for academic purposes such as doing researches or graduate thesis. 
In conclusion, I believe that both public libraries and computer technology are necessary for people to expand their knowledge. Therefore, public libraries will not disappear or be replaced by computer science in the near future because of their unique features and benefits. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
advanced computer technology (n): công nghệ máy tính tiên tiến online (adj): trực tuyến 
mobile devices (n): các thiết bị di động get access to (v): tiếp cận với 
to do something on the move: vừa di chuyển vừa làm được việc gì đó 
 
Sample essay 71 
In today’s world of advanced science and technology, we still greatly value our artists such as musicians, painters, and writers. What can arts tell us about life that science and technology cannot? 
Today, science and technology have a great impact on the whole world in all aspects. However, the role of artists is also undeniable thanks to their contribution to the society. 
There are many things that artists can tell us about life that science and technology are not able to. To begin with, language, which is surprisingly a branch of art, gives people the sense of humanity, and differentiates human beings from animals. Furthermore, artists can boost our emotions and change our feelings with their artworks. For example, lots of Beethoven’s fans feel relieved and motivated when they listen to his masterpieces.  
Another field in which we learn from art is related to culture and history. Many countries show their history through a piece of painting or the way that people perform their traditional dances in unique costumes. For instance, “Dong Ho” paintings depict not only the daily life of Vietnamese people hundred years ago but also their dreams about a well-off life. For many people, exploring art is also one type of entertainment. There are people who travel around the world to visit historical places and art galleries, which helps them learn more about the culture and history of other nations. By contrast, science and technology are all about practical and physical aspects and contribute less to our lives emotionally and socially.   
To conclude, there is no denying that science and technology have great values in our lives. However, artists can teach people about many aspects of their lives that the modern technology is not capable of. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ 
boost one’s emotions (c): thúc đẩy cảm xúc artwork (n): tác phẩm nghệ thuật masterpieces (n): kiệt tác depict: miêu tả 
historical places: di tích lịch sử 
art galleries: triển lãm nghệ thuật 
 
Sample essay 72 
Some people believe that studying at university or college is the best route to a successful career, while others believe that it is better to get a job straight after school. Discuss both views and give your opinion. 
Today, a lot of teenagers find it difficult to choose between getting a job or continuing their education after graduating from high school. Even though there are some benefits of working straight after school, I believe that going to college or university is the better option. 
There are several reasons why people believe that getting a job is the better choice. First, if people start to work at the age of 18, they could earn money on their own and be able to live independently without their parents’ financial support. In fact, many students in Western countries tend to find a job after high school to afford their living. Second, people who choose to start their career early instead of going to university or college can have more opportunities to gain real experience and learn exclusive skills for their jobs. Therefore, this may bring out a good chance of getting promoted to higher positions such as managers or executives. 
On the other hand, I strongly believe that students would gain more benefits if they continue their studies. Firstly, a plenty of employers might ask for high academic qualifications from people applying for some professional jobs. For many high-paying jobs such as statisticians, economists, and medical jobs, master’s degree is one of the most vital requirements. Secondly, today job market is more competitive and a bachelor’s degree or master’s degree in your resumé can be a huge advantage compared to other applicants. Employers would prefer a person who has an adequate amount of knowledge to work efficiently with less training time. 
For the above reasons, it seems to me that students with higher academic background are likely to be more successful in pursuing their dream jobs. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ financial support: hỗ trợ tài chính exclusive skills: kỹ năng đặc thù 
academic qualifications: các trình độ học thuật high-paying jobs: các công việc lương cao bachelor’s degree: bằng cử nhân master’s degree: bằng thạc sĩ resumé: hồ sơ xin việc 
pursue one’s dream job: theo đuổi công việc mơ ước 
 
Sample essay 73 
Parents often give children everything they ask for and do what they like. Is it good for children? What are the consequences when they grow up?  Modern parents are giving into children’s demands and buy them all the latest toys and gadgets. I would argue that on no account can this parenting style bring any benefits for kids in the long run. Worse still, this negative education would cause detrimental consequences when they reach adulthood. 
First, over-indulgence can be harmful to young children, both socially and developmentally. When kids are provided with the latest must-have items, they are less likely to grasp the notion of sharing or appreciation for their parents’ affection. Eventually, they interpret negative behaviours such as whining or begging as a way to manipulate others. In addition, little do the young ones comprehend the value of hard-earned money if adults keep showering them in spending splurges. Consequently, spoilt kids can become insensitive to the needs of others, are prone to temper tantrum and have trouble deferring gratification. 
Second, instant gratification could lead to adverse consequences in the future. Children who are spoiled do not have to learn responsible behaviours. Nor do they understand the concept of boundaries as adults and can develop problems such as gambling, overeating or drinking. Lacking in emotional maturity and having poor problem-solving skills, these adults might flounder and become unhappy with their lives. Furthermore, as over-indulged and over protected kids do not grasp the lesson of giving and taking in a relationship, they can have difficulty in establishing and maintaining meaningful friendships. 
In short, sometimes effective parenting skills involve resisting the desire to give kids whatever they want. Indeed, spoilt kids can lack life skills necessary to successfully negotiate the demands of adulthood given that their troubles have always been tackled by parents’ money. 

(279 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng give into: làm theo parenting style: cách nuôi con over-indulgence: việc nuông chiều quá mức grasp the notion of: nắm bắt khái niệm interpret: hiểu, nhìn nhận comprehend: hiểu toàn diện hard-earned money: đồng tiền khó kiếm splurge: lần tiên tiền xả láng temper tantrum: việc nổi giận 
defer gratification: trì hoãn sự thoả mãn cá nhân instant gratification: mong muốn tức thời boundaries: những giới hạn 
lacking in emotional maturity: việc thiếu thốn sự trưởng thành về cảm xúc flounder: lúng túng 
 
Sample essay 74 
Everyone should stay at school until 18. To what extent do you agree or disagree?  
It is said that all children should continue schooling until the age of eighteen. While this policy may prove to be beneficial to a certain extent, I hold the view that it is not fit for all. 
To begin with, there are a number of apparent reasons for keeping school leaving age to eighteen. First, it is of paramount importance to equip youngsters with fundamental life skills and knowledge so that they can enter the workforce as highly-qualified candidates. Working at an early age, albeit providing valuable hands-on experience, is likely to deter kids from pursuing higher education. In fact, without the proper education and training, rarely could children under eighteen make right career decisions as well as possess appropriate skill sets to negotiate higher base salary. Moreover, teenage years are theoretical milestones of adolescents’ development in shaping their personality traits. Thus, only by staying in education under the guidance and orientation of adults could young people grasp moral behaviours and become law-abiding citizens. 
On the other hand, I strongly believe that not all children are obliged to attend a school until eighteen. A notable exception is for those with poor academic performance. There are multiple cases of successful entrepreneurs who drop out of school, yet managed to establish a thriving business without any formal education background. In other words, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to learning. Some individuals would learn best through direct contacts with real life circumstances. In addition, gifted kids with special talents should be noticed and nurtured in a different training course to boost their innate ability to the fullest. For example, a girl bestowed with a great voice should spend time on practicing singing skills so that her talent can prosper instead of learning subjects which are not her forte. 
In short, compulsory education until the age of eighteen is acceptable since children in teenage years still lack intellectual and emotional maturity. However, the essence of education is to tap into the potential in learners. Therefore, kids should be given the freedom to follow the most suitable learning path based on their individual style and inborn talents. 
(352 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
paramount importance: tầm quan trọng tột bậc equip: trang bị 
highly-qualified candidates: những ứng viên chất lượng hands-on experience: kinh nghiệm thực tế 
theoretical milestones: những cột mốc mang tính lý thuyết grasp: nắm bắt 
poor academic performance: kết quả học tập kém formal education background: lý lịch học tập đầy đủ 
one-size-fits-all approach: cách tiếp cận phù hợp cho tất cả mọi người boost their innate ability to the fullest: thúc đẩy tài năng thiên bẩm tới mức cao nhất 
be bestowed with: được ban tặng cái gì prosper: phát triển thịnh vượng forte: sở trường tap into: chạm đến 
 
Sample essay 75 
Writing, reading and maths are the three major subjects. Some people think that computer skill should be added as a fourth subject. What extent do you agree or disagree?  
It is argued that computer skills should be added to the school curriculum alongside traditional core subjects, namely writing, reading and maths. I strongly agree with this view for the following reasons. 
First, reading skill is of paramount importance to a child’s success. The comprehension of written words equip an individual the ability to understand what is read, and therefore he or she can pursue any area of life that they are interested in. Similarly, people with good writing skills are generally associated as more credible, more capable than those who frequently has typos and grammatical errors. The intrinsic value of literacy skills is to ensure effective communication in our daily lives. Secondly, compulsory algebra courses in the education system would nurture reasoning, analytical thinking which prepare our mind for real problems in life. 
On the other hand, there are a multitude of reasons why the introduction of computer studies at school is crucial in the era of information technology. Given the enormous amount of valuable material and knowledge available on the Internet, only when one is well-acquainted with basic digital skills, can they take advantage of the countless information resources worldwide. Lack of fundamental computer skills could be easily classified as the biggest culprit behind that cause one individual to lag behind their peers. In addition, proficiency in office-based applications such as Word, Powerpoint and Excel is one of the essential prerequisites if one aspires to thrive in the modern-day workplace. In other words, primary computer-related skills are inextricably linked with career progression as well as keeping apace with the surrounding world. 
In conclusion, as computer skill is an eligibility criterion for almost all the modern-day jobs, it should be listed as a required subject along with literacy and numeracy skills. 
(288 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ core subjects: các môn chính comprehension: tính toàn diện intrinsic value: giá trị cốt lõi nurture: nuôi dưỡng 
the era of information technology: kỷ nguyên công nghệ thông tin well-acquainted: quá quen với cái gì 
fundamental computer skills: những kỹ năng máy tính căn bản culprit: tác nhân 
lag behind: trì trệ, tụt lại phía sai proficiency: sự thành thạo 
office-based applications: ứng dụng tin học văn phòng essential prerequisites: yêu cầu đầu vào cơ bản thrive: phát triển mạnh inextricably: phức tạp 
career progression: sự thăng tiến sự nghiệp keep apace with: bắt kịp, chạy theo với eligibility criterion: tiêu chí phù hợp 
 
Sample essay 76 
Students leave high school without learning the way how to manage their money. What are the reasons and solutions of this issue? 
High school students are studying up on literature, chemistry and world history; however, most are not learning fundamental money lessons to help them financially navigate the real world. Parents’ lack of financial knowledge and negligence towards the matter are the biggest culprits; thus, several measures need to be taken to tackle those heightened concerns. 
On the one hand, regardless of the fact that an overwhelming majority of teens desire more financial education, neither parents nor educational institutions are paying proper attention to financial literacy. It is said that a number of high schools are doing the bare minimum to equip students with the required skills for money management. In other words, state governments are focused on teaching the core subjects of Maths and English that personal finance often gets overlooked. In addition, parents today are not confident in their abilities to teach their kids about money management. Sadly enough, many parents have not learned critical financial values themselves; hence, they may be passing bad financial habits to their kids. 
In essence, most teenagers lack personal money management skill as noone around them talks about it. Therefore, it is vital for parents to use financial hardships and strained budgets as an opportunity to talk about finances and teach kids about managing money around the dinner table. Teenage kids should also be included in budget planning through a weekly or monthly allowance. Another feasible approach is the embedding of financial literacy course into the school curriculum. Amongst traditional core subjects, students should be required to complete personal-finance classes to graduate. 
In conclusion, lack of financial knowledge could leave serious implications on a kid’s livelihood. This is calling for collective actions of parents and schools to bring money-related education into everyday conversations as well as the official curriculum. 
(297 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
navigate: điều hướng, điều khiển negligence: sự thờ ơ 
financial literacy: khả năng quản lý tài chính money management: khả năng quản lý tiền bạc overlook: bỏ qua 
strained budget: ngân sách hạn hẹp embed: gán vào allowance: tiền tiêu vặt implication: hệ quả 
 
Sample essay 77 
Students learn far more with their teachers than other sources (internet or television), To what extent do you agree or disagree?  
The dominance of the Internet technology has brought about drastic changes in almost every aspect of our life, including education. While some people argue that teachers remain the most important factor contributing to student achievement, I am more convinced that students can gain more knowledge through novel learning sources such as the Internet or television. 
To start with, regarded as the global data warehouse, the Internet offers an enormous amount of knowledge for just about every subject known to man, ranging from arts, history to archeology and astronomy, the lists is simply endless. Thanks to the usefulness of the information available, motivated selflearners can access a wealth of material straight from respectable university sources. Realistically, one can probably find almost anything he wishes to know on the World wide web. Whereas, rigid school curriculum is likely to keep students from realizing their great individual potential. In fact, the needs and learning styles of each student are so varied that a standardized curriculum will not work. 
On the other hand, supporters of traditional learning environment would argue that the presence of qualified teachers is of paramount importance in helping students acquire knowledge in a systematic way. However, there is mounting evidence that students are becoming alienated and bored by traditional teaching methods. In stark contrast, digital learning tools help every student learn at the best pace and path for them. The opportunity to customize learning sequences for each student will make education more productive. Moreover, by incorporating both visual and audio contents, online learning would provide a more engaging and dynamic experience for students of all ages. Eventually, better engagement would lead to productivity and improved motivation. 
In conclusion, with the advent of the world wide web, teachers are no longer the only guidance for students. Self-motivated learners can obtain far more from online resources, and customize the materials to fit their interest and learning style. 
(314 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ dominance: sự thống trị 
amount of knowledge: lượng kiến thức self-learner: người tự học 
qualified teachers: những giáo viên có trình độ advent: sự đến gần 
customize: thay đổi, thích nghi cái gì 
 
Sample essay 78 
In many countries, children are becoming overweight and unhealthy. Some people think that this is the responsibility of governments to solve the problem. What extent do you agree or disagree? 
In recent years, obesity has become one of the most serious health problems among people of all ages, especially children. Although there are people who believe that the government should take the full responsibility to find the solutions for this problem, I would argue that parents and schools also play a vital role in dealing with the issue. 
On one hand, there are several effective solutions on this problem that the government should consider. First, the government may conduct official conferences and news on the symptoms and effects of obesity to raise public awareness. By this way, people will be encouraged to have an active, healthy diet and lifestyle. Second, advertisements on foods and drinks that contain high level of sugar and fat should be restricted on TV and other means of mass media. In fact, since 2017, a ban on junk foods and soft drinks advertisement before 9 pm has come into effect by the UK. 
On the other hand, parents and schools are also responsible for maintaining low level of obesity among their children. One of the main causes that make children overweight and unhealthy is the choice of daily diet by their parents. A healthy nutritional balanced diet is necessary for every children to grow up normally without having any serious diseases. As the lack of physical exercises can also lead to an obese child, an adequate amount of physical education sessions needs to be held weekly by schools for their young students to keep fit and stay healthy. 
To conclude, childhood obesity has become a rising issue in modern society, but I strongly believe that it can still be controlled if the government, parents, and schools get together to help our children. 
(286 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
childhood obesity: béo phì ở trẻ em people of all ages: người ở mọi lứa tuổi 
to take the full responsibility: chịu toàn bộ trách nhiệm 
a healthy nutritional balanced diet: chế độ ăn uống lành mạnh và cân bằng dinh dưỡng 
a rising issue: vấn đề nóng 
 
Sample essay 79 
People should look after their health for personal benefits, rather than a duty for a society. What extent do you agree or disagree?  
In the hectic modern-day life, people are increasingly leaning towards a healthier lifestyle. However, whether being health-conscious is for the sake of one individual or for the benefit of society at large is open to debate. In my opinion, I reckon that not only staying healthy would do good to oneself but it also indicates the duty of every citizen. 
To begin with, one’s mental and physical condition is inextricably linked to their life quality. In essence, those who maintain a good overall health are capable of performing their tasks more effectively than physically weaker counterparts. In other words, a person’s well-being at the grass-roots level provides the foundation for building wealth and reaching desirable financial status. Additionally, a disease-free body allows people to live life to the fullest, experiencing what life has to offer around you. To illustrate this, one can not participate in extreme sports such as bungee jumping or skydiving if their fitness level is not qualified. 
On the other hand, each citizen should consider taking care of their health a responsibility to sustain communal health. Take the outbreak of EBOLA and SARS as a vivid illustration of a single patient infecting a disproportionate number of contact. This is an important wake-up call for ignorant members in every community. In order to prevent and control the super spreading of emerging viruses, concerted effort of the authority and each inhabitant of great importance. Furthermore, a strong and healthy labour force plays a pivotal role in the economic growth of a nation. Consequently, a thriving country with a steadily rising budget would allocate necessary resources to improve the welfare system, ensuring equal access quality health care to all. 
In short, human resource is the most valuable asset of a country. Therefore, a healthy community calls for collective actions, in which all the sectors - the local government, individual citizens as well as other groups work together for a common purpose. Staying healthy both physically and mentally can do good to each person and the community as a whole. 
(286 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
childhood obesity: béo phì ở trẻ em people of all ages: người ở mọi lứa tuổi 
to take the full responsibility: chịu toàn bộ trách nhiệm 
a healthy nutritional balanced diet: chế độ ăn uống lành mạnh và cân bằng dinh dưỡng 
a rising issue: vấn đề nóng 


Sample essay 80 
Some people think that good health is very important to every person, so medical service should not be run by profit-making companies. Do the advantages of private health care outweigh the disadvantages  
In the hectic modern-day life, staying physically and mentally healthy is of paramount importance. While some people argue that medical care should be provided by private entities, I believe that the dominance of private hospitals and clinics pose more threats than benefits. 
To begin with, private sector is supposedly more efficient and responsive to patients’ needs because of market competition. In order to gain widespread popularity, private practices would employ well-qualified personnel and topnotch treatment facilities, attracting and retaining patients with competitive services. Consequently, by virtue of high-quality medical care and favorable staff’s attitude, patients often choose to bypass free public clinic and opt for private doctors. Another argument in support of private services is the relatively substantial funding compared to public ones. Bountiful financial resources would eventually result in research findings on medicine and treatment for acute health problems, from which patients are intended beneficiaries. On the other hand, advocates of public sectors have highlighted inequities in access to health care resulting from the inability of the poor to pay for private services. There have been cases of private healthcare institutions charging exorbitant fees for medical treatments. Sadly though, the government has little control over the quality and the amount private hospitals and clinics charge the patients. In this situation, citizens are left at the whim of healthcare providers who are mostly driven by profit motives, rather than serving the ailing mankind. Furthermore, there are also moral and ethical issues regarding doctors and nursing staff in private sector. Some physicians would prescribe brand-name medications based on the commissions from pharmaceutical companies. In short, even though they offer better service and more cutting-edge medical equipment than their public-sector counterparts, negative aspects of the private providers such as overcharge and unethical staff overshadow the advantages. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ
market competition: sự cạnh tranh trên thị trường gain widespread popularity: có được sự phổ biến rộng rãi  bypass: bỏ qua 
substantial funding: việc đầu tư lớn 
acute health problems: các vấn đề sức khoẻ nghiêm trọng intended beneficiaries: đối tượng hưởng lợi chính inequities: sự bất bình đẳng exorbitant fees: phí quá cao 
driven by profit motives: được thúc đẩy bởi mục đích lợi nhuận 
commissions from pharmaceutical companies: tiền hoa hồng từ các công ty dược phẩm 
cutting-edge medical equipment: các thiết bị y tế tối tân overshadow: che lấp 
Sample essay 81 
In some countries, children are becoming overweight and unhealthy. Some people think that it is the responsibility of governments to solve the problem. To what extent do you agree or disagree?  
Childhood obesity is one of the most serious public health threats in modern day society. While some people say that the government should hold the responsibility for tackling the problem, I strongly believe that collective actions of individuals and the authority are needed to combat the childhood obesity crisis. 
First, advocates of the former argument would point out that it is the duty of the government to ensure healthy communities and address public health concerns including childhood obesity epidemic. For instance, they should initiate several strategies aimed at increasing habitual physical activity and sports participation, thereby reducing obesity rates. In addition, the authority also has a part to play in the heavy bombardment of unhealthy food advertising targeting children. In other words, the authority should impose strict censorship of material before it is published, slashing the constant stream of ads for junk food. 
On the other hand, eating behaviors that affect weight are heavily influenced by elders in a family. The involvement of parents and caretakers, therefore, will be needed to reverse the epidemic. During early childhood, parents are the main source of children’s food and drink which determines whether or not kids experience unhealthy weight gain. Moreover, as children often unconsciously imitate words and actions of others, parents could serve as powerful role models in establishing healthy eating habits and being physically active. Ultimately, under careful parental supervision, children would participate in more active pursuits and adopt healthy eating patterns; hence, lower obesity rates ensue. 
In conclusion, in order to confront growing level of childhood obesity, joint efforts of government agencies and families are essential to promote a more responsible lifestyle choice in young generations. 
(274 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
childhood obesity: nạn béo phì ở trẻ em 
habitual physical activity and sports participation: việc tham gia hoạt động thể chất và thể thao thường xuyên 
the heavy bombardment of unhealthy food advertising: việc tràn ngập các quảng cáo về đồ ăn có hại cho sức khoẻ 
powerful role models: những tấm gương mạnh mẽ  
promote a more responsible lifestyle choice: thúc đẩy sự lựa chọn lối sống có trách nhiệm hơn 
 
Sample essay 82 
It is difficult for people in the cities to get enough physical exercise. What are the causes and solutions? 
It is quite challenging for the city dwellers to exercise adequately. The prevalence of low physical activity among urban population is mainly associated with limited access to exercise facilities and perceived lack of time. Fortunately, there are several measures that can be taken to address these heightened concerns. 
To begin with, myriad reasons can keep people off their feet; however, the dearth of parks and open spaces in urban settings is identified as one of the biggest culprits behind the decreased physical activity. Sadly enough, excessive urbanization has led to the depletion and transformation of the natural landscape. Ineffective land use and low priority to green spaces would eventually discourage physical activity engagement among citizens. In addition, the shortage of time is another factor that limits exercise participation in urban areas. As the hectic daily schedule puts one in a constant state of stress and hurry, draining most of their energy and time, reluctance to exercise would ensue. 
In order to promote an active lifestyle among urban dwellers, joint efforts of the authority and individuals are of paramount importance. First, urban designers and planners should create supportive built environments to facilitate physical activity engagement. As green spaces and recreational facilities are the perk of a great neighborhood, their ubiquitous presence would encourage residents to make active living part of their daily routine. Moreover, companies and schools should join hands in incorporating regular exercises into work hours and school hours. By instilling exercise sessions during office hours, businesses are building fitness opportunities for workers to stay fit and healthy; thereby, increasing energy levels, reducing sick days and giving employee productivity a boost. 
In conclusion, urban infrastructure and the pressure of modern life are major barriers against active living in big cities. Therefore, effective land use along with the promotion of work-life balance will be essential to achieve the goal of making physical activity a regular and natural part of people’s daily lives. 
(321 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ adequately: đầy đủ 
be associated with: liên quan đến 
keep people off their feet: khiến mọi người ít vận động 
the dearth of parks and open spaces: việc khan hiếm công viên và các khu vực mở ngoài trời  drain: bòn rút 
facilitate physical activity engagement: thúc đẩy việc tham gia các hoạt động thể chất 
ubiquitous: có ở khắp mọi nơi  incorporate: kết hợp 
the promotion of work-life balance: việc thúc đẩy sự cân bằng giữa công việc và cuộc sống 
 
Sample essay 83 
Explain some of the ways in which humans are damaging the environment. What can governments do to address these problems? What can individual people do? 
Since several environmental problems have been caused by humans’ forces, we need to act responsibly to reduce the damage that we are doing to the Earth. This essay will explain environmental problems and what governments and individuals can do to address these problems. 
Two of the threats to the environment are air pollution and waste. Global warming, which is well-known as a global issue because of its devastating effect on the environment, is a result of gas emissions from factories and exhaust fumes from vehicles. In addition, the increase in human population comes along with a huge quantity of waste, which contaminates the Earth and pollutes rivers and oceans. 
On one hand, governments could reduce air pollution in many ways. First, they could introduce laws to put a limit on factories’ gas emissions or force companies to use renewable energy in production. Second, they could also innovate the public transport system to become more convenient and greener. By this way, governments can encourage people to take public transport instead of driving, therefore reducing emissions. 
On the other hand, individuals should also be responsible to lower down pollution level in their surroundings. They can take buses and subways or other means of public transportation rather than driving, which could reduce the amount of exhaust fumes from vehicles. Also, people should purchase reusable products and recycle as much as possible to avoid releasing too much waste. For example, Vietnamese people are recommended to use resuable or paper bags when going shopping instead of plastic bags to cut down on plastic bags consumption. 
In conclusion, both national governments and individuals must understand the harmful impact they have on the environment and be responsible to ease damage. 
(283 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
environmental problems: vấn đề về môi trường humans’ forces: tác động của con người  global warming: sự nóng lên toàn cầu devastating effect: ảnh hưởn vo cùng nghiêm trọng gas emission: khí thải exhaust fumes: khí thải từ xe cộ  renewable energy: năng lượng tái tạo 
public transport system: hệ thống giao thông công cộng ease damage: giảm thiểu thiệt hại  
 
Sample essay 84 
Some people say that it is possible for a country to be both economically successful and have a clean environment. Others disagree. Discuss both view and give your opinion.  
Sustainable development has gradually become a growing concern on a global scale. While some people believe that balancing economic growth and environment protection is nearly impractical, I am more convinced of the opposite views for the following reasons. 
First, it is common for the society to be induced to think that economic progress is associated with pollutant emission growth and depletable resource consumption. For instant, accelerating urbanization, despite an important instrument for economic development, is one of the driving forces behind the loss of agricultural land. As a result, not only natural habitats that are home to wildlife is endangered but also arable land is shrinking due to urban expansion. In addition, exhaust emissions from manufacturing factories, consisting of harmful particles suspended in the air as well as heavier materials that remain on the surface are contaminating the environment at an alarming rate. The pursuit of high growth at all costs, for example of China - world’s second-largest economy could lead to severe pollution. 
On the other hand, I still hold a strong belief that the combination of economic and environment sustainability is within our reach. In this era of high technology, scientists have developed multiple alternatives to replace traditional sources of exploitation in many fields. The rise of renewable energy from wind, sunlight or ocean waves would be the answer for escalating demand. What’s even more encouraging is the fact that many countries are joining hands and pooling their resources to cut down industrial pollution. Commitment to protect the environment and prioritize sustainable development over resource extraction would allow the economy to thrive in the long run. 
In short, even though achieving economic goals is of utmost importance, each nation should incorporate environmental issues in the policy making process. 
Only then can human race exist in perfect harmony with nature. 
(301 words)  Các cụm từ cần nhớ
balance economic growth and environment protection: cân bằng giữa sự phát triển kinh tế và bảo vệ môi trường 
pollutant emission growth: sự gia tăng khí thải độc hại 
depletable resource consumption: sự tiêu thụ tài nguyên thiên nhiên đến kiệt quệ  
accelerating urbanization: việc đô thị hoá gia tăng nhanh chóng driving forces: các nguyên nhân thúc đẩy chính  shrink: thu hẹp  contaminate: làm ô nhiễm 
within our reach: nằm trong tầm với của chúng ta  escalating demand: nhu cầu tăng cao prioritize: ưu tiên  
resource extraction: việc khai phá tài nguyên 
 
Sample essay 85 
The animal species are becoming extinct due to human activities on land and in sea. What are the reasons and solutions?  
It is frightening that myriads of terrestrial and marine animals are on the verge of extinction due to human beings. My essay will shed light on the causes and measures to this issue. 
To begin with, the constant tampering of nature by human has led to drastic changes in the natural world resulting in animals and plants finding it more difficult and difficult to survive. Nearly every kind of habitat or ecosystem - be it land, air or water - has been affected by the uncontrollable destruction of habitats by human. The impact of humans taking land for buildings, farming and timber has rendered species extinct at speeds unprecedented in Earth’s history. Besides, humans, due to their industrial, agricultural, or normal day-to-day activities, release an inordinate amount of toxic waste that is eventually dumped into the air, water or landfills. Tragedies like oil spills have been known to destroy and threaten many aquatic life forms. 
Having said that, rapid, greatly intensified efforts to address the problem, slowing the extinctions currently underway. First, each government should levy exorbitant fines on devastating behaviors such as littering, illegal dumping or other environmental offences. The implementation of stringent laws, accompanied by extensive media coverage of the issue would raise environmental awareness among all sections of the society. Second, international organizations such as the United Nations should coordinate activities among member countries as well as encourage participation by the private sector to promote sustainable use of the world’s natural resources. Specifically, the presence of such inter-governmental organizations plays a major role in initiating negotiations on reducing industrial pollution level or other toxic waste. 
In short, the blame for the most recent mass extinction is not natural calamities – it is human. Therefore, several solutions need to be done to tackle this worrying trend and save endangered species from the brink of extinction. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
on the verge of extinction: trên bờ vực tuyệt chủng tamper: làm xáo trộn, làm hư hại 
uncontrollable destruction: sự huỷ diệt không thể kiểm soát render: gây ra 
toxic waste: chất thải độc hại 
aquatic life forms: các hình thức sinh vật sống dưới nước intensified efforts: các nỗ lực được đẩy mạnh implementation: sự thực thi 
extensive media coverage: việc truyền thông rộng rãi calamity: thảm hoạ  
  
Sample essay 86 
Solving environment problems should be the responsibility of an international organization rather than each national government. Do you agree or disagree?  
People hold different views about how to cope with environment problems. While some people argue that it is the duty of international organization, rather than a single country, to solve environment-related issues, I believe that both parties/ sides should join hands in solving this problem. 
On the one hand, many countries may share the same environmental concerns; however, they would stem from various causes. Therefore, each nation should implement different policies and measures to address the problem. For example, over-exploitation of natural resources and deforestation are identified as the biggest culprit for desertification in the USA; whereas, the growing rate of desertified land in China has been mainly caused by rapid urbanization. In addition, the priority regarding environmental issue is also varied in each country, calling for different approach and strategies to tackle the problem. To illustrate, in emerging economies such as Vietnam, reducing the worrying level of air pollution from industrial activities is of highest priority. 
On the other hand, the problems that each government is experiencing are indeed interconnected, hence, concerted efforts by all nations are necessary. Thus, international organizations such as the United Nations play a vital role in promoting and coordinate global action to reduce carbon footprint and curb the global warming threat. Furthermore, wealthy countries should provide financial and technological support for poor nations in the fight against green issues, since the detrimental effects of environmental problems could spread beyond national borders. In other words, an international effort is needed to yield an efficient environment protection scheme. 
In conclusion, while international organizations could exert huge impact on a global scale, the combination of international and governmental efforts would have even more profound influences on the environment. 
(279 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
environment-related issues: các vấn đề liên quan về môi trường  stem from: bắt nguồn từ 
over-exploitation of natural resources: việc khai thác quá nhiều các tài nguyên thiên nhiên  
emerging economies: các nền kinh tế mới nổi  interconnected: liên kết (giữa nhiều quốc gia)  reduce carbon footprint: giảm lượng khí thải cacbon  curb the global warming threat: kìm hãm việc nóng lên toàn cầu  
yield an efficient environment protection scheme: đạt được một kế hoạch bảo vệ môi trường hiệu quả  
 
Sample essay 87 
Nowadays in many countries more and more people are spending their time away from their families. Why is this? What are the effects on themselves and on their families? 
In the modern life, there are more and more people spending less time with their family. This essay will examine the major causes and possible influences of this phenomenon.  
To begin with, there are several explanations that are worth mentioning about this issue. The first reason is that due to the fast pace of modern life, people are now living a busier one and devoting an increasing amount of time to work. It is increasingly common that people tend to lose the balance between family and clerical work since they usually spend more time at work and do not come home until late at night. For example, due to the heavy workload many workers have to work more than 10 hours a day, and sometimes they are required to work during weekend or overnight to meet the deadline. The rapid development of social media is the second reason for this trend. That parents and children stay together but hold their own mobile phones or laptops to communicate with online friends on Facebook instead of talking with each other is easily seen these days.  
This rising issue is having considerable impacts on both individuals themselves and family. First, it is believed that family is where people can share their feelings and problems, which help them to release their stress. However, an individual may experience emotional distress if they do not receive proper support from his/ her immediate family. Second, the bonds between parents and children may be weakened. For instance, when parents do not spend much time with their children, their children will lack of appropriate parental care and attention and are likely to follow a path towards criminal behaviors. 
In conclusion, there are two main factors leading to the fact that people hardly make time for their family and not only individuals but also the family may suffer from this trend in both physical and emotional ways. 
(317 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ
balance between family and clerical work: cân bằng giữa gia đình và công việc văn phòng 
parental care and attention: sự chăm lo từ bố mẹ immediate family: gia đình ruột thịt emotional distress: rối loạn tâm lý 
to follow a path towards criminal behaviors: sa vào con đường của những hành vi tội lỗi 
hardly make time for one’s family: hầu như không dành thời gian cho gia đình devote an increasing/a huge amount of time to work: dành phần lớn thời gian cho công việc 
 
Sample essay 88 
Nowadays young people spend too much of their free time in shopping malls. Some people fear that this may have negative effects on young people and the society they live in. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
The young today spend a large amount of leisure time in shopping centers. It is fear that this trend can bring about negative influences on the youths and the society. Personally, I strongly disagree with this view.  
On the one hand, for the young generation spending too much time at the shopping malls can make them waste a great deal of money. As there are dozens of brands with various prices and design for them to choose from, they are easily tempted to buy things impulsively and misspend money on unnecessary stuff. For example, when some big brand names slash the prices, a shopaholic may purchase 10 shirts and jeans in a row and this cost her somewhere $100; however, such items often end up being left in the wardrobe. For the society, because youngsters are unlikely to participate in other activities such as their work or studying, economy may suffer due to less work being done and the youths could slack off their knowledge acquisition, making the national education standard drop significantly. 
On the other hand, there are also some advantages of this trend. First, in terms of the young, spending time at the malls is considered a method of relaxation. In modern life these days, young people have to deal with lots of pressure from school or workplace, so this trend helps them enjoy their life and effectively release their stress. Second, the society also benefits from this phenomenon. The increase in the amount of consumption will promote manufacture and commerce in the fashion industry, which afterward will create more jobs and boost the economic growth. 
In conclusion, I strongly believe that devoting a huge amount of time in shopping malls could lead to both negative and positive consequences to the young as well as the society. 
(299 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
buy things impulsively: mua hàng không theo chủ đích big brand names: các thương hiệu lớn slash prices: đại hạ giá shopaholic: người nghiện mua sắm slack off: giảm bớt 
knowledge acquisition: việc tiếp nhận kiến thức national education standard: tiêu chuẩn về giáo dục quốc gia release one’s stress: xả stress 
boost the economic growth: thúc đẩy tăng trưởng kinh tế 
 
Sample essay 89 
The increase in people's life expectancy means that they have to work older to pay for their retirement. One alternative is that people start to work at younger age. Is this alternative a positive or negative development?  
Human in general are experiencing a longer life expectancy, which lead to an overwhelming number of people continue to work after the legal retirement age. Whereas, others opt for entering the workforce at an earlier age, and from my perspective, this is a negative development. 
First, choosing a career path - and the appropriate university courses for that profession - is a decision of paramount importance. Contrary to popular belief, landing on a job while studying - be it a part-time job or an apprenticeship, could easily distract youngsters from fulfilling their duties at school. In essence, in the current climate of obsession with early success, one is put under intense pressure to become successful artists, entrepreneurs and startup CEOs before the age 25, enjoying retirement with a generous income. That being said, that chilling reality could be a pipe dream for most. In fact, many well-paid jobs, such as doctors or lawyers, require a multi-year commitment to a long training course which can take up to 6 years or more, and thus, are not suitable for those who start working too early, yet lack formal education. 
On the other hand, there is mounting evidence that many elderly people are physically and mentally fit to stay in work until their 70s. I believe that people who remain in paid employment past retirement age or involved in community or voluntary work improve their chances of staying healthier for longer. Continuing to have a routine and going into a place of work each day can prevent the sense of loneliness that could come with retirement. Furthermore, by engaging in active employment, two problems are solved: the pension and the retirement savings crisis. Financial independence is the ultimate goal that everyone would pursue in order to live comfortably in older age. 
In short, the youth-obsessed culture has caused young people to take career decisions earlier than previous generations. However, working past retirement age could result in lengthening life spans, improved health and financial secure retirement. 
(332 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng overwhelming: choáng ngợp 
legal retirement age: tuổi nghỉ hưu hợp pháp land on a job: giành được một công việc the current climate of: trong thời thế, trong bối cảnh pipe dream: giấc mơ viển vông multi-year commitment: sự cam kết lâu dài the sense of loneliness: cảm giác cô đơn financial independence: sự độc lập tài chính 
youth-obsessed culture: nền văn hoá trọng dụng người trẻ 
 
Sample essay 90 
People think that children nowadays have more freedom. To what extent do you agree or disagree?  
Freedom is an abstract concept that cannot be adequately measured on any physical scales. However, many people incline to the view that children these days enjoy a more liberal life than previous generations. My opinion is utterly opposed on this issue for the following reasons. 
One of the arguments put forth in support of the former statement is that the digital age presents an unparalleled opportunity for kids to gain access to a tremendous amount of information without geographical barriers. Ironically, the advent of the Internet is more of a mixed blessing. Indeed, the obvious merits of the world wide web cannot overshadow a worrying tendency of that growing addiction to electrical gadgets such as laptops, tablets or smartphones. Therefore, early exposure to the virtual world ended up erecting invisible boundaries, inducing kids’ estrangement from actual human interactions. 
On the other hand, amidst a modern-day hectic world, there is an inordinate amount of pressure on young people to become successful artists, entrepreneurs or startup CEOs before the age of 30. Consequently, parents would compel their offspring to enroll in highest-paying college majors, oblivious to their utmost passion. In addition, adult supervision seems to be extending into every aspect of children’s lives. Take the recent arrest and jailing in US of a mother for abandoning her nine- year-old daughter to play alone in the park while she worked. In the current climate of obsession with children’s safety, parents who let their youngsters out of sight court the accusation of irresponsibility, if not gross negligence. However, this school of thought may accidentally cause the erosion of children’s freedom to engage with the world at will. 
In conclusion, while the proliferation of the electronic devices could hamper children’s direct contact with the real world, parents may unintentionally impede a child from acquiring their innate dreams and fundamental life skills for being overprotective. Thus, I believe millennials feel confined rather than free during a hightech era. 
(322 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ  Chú thích từ vựng abstract: trừu tượng incline: thiên về, có xu hướng unparalleled: không sánh được tendency: xu hướng compel: thuyết phục, ép buộc be oblivious to: thờ ơ erosion: sự xói mòn 
proliferation: sự tăng trưởng, sự phát triển 
 
Sample essay 91 
The users of social media, such as Facebook, Twitter, are replacing face-to-face contact in this century. Do you think the advantages of this way outweigh the disadvantages?  
In the era of information technology, the advent of social media websites such as Facebook and Twitter has gradually become a substitute for face-to-face communication. From my perspective, this growing trend offers more drawbacks than benefits in long term. 
First, advocates of online communication would argue that it expands the available time and place in which a meeting can occur. For example, one can stay in constant touch with their loved ones via online messenger or video calls regardless of geographical barriers. In business context, rather than having to travel to specific location, people can plan to meet at times that work for all of their schedules. In addition, for professionals and academics, social networking sites allow users to create networks of like-minded people, expanding the horizons of what sort of contacts they can make in their professional lives. 
While it is impossible to deny the importance of these platforms, and the way that they have revolutionized communication, it is essential to realize their detrimental effects on our life. One issue with these digital forms of communication is that they are counter-intuitive, they have led to fewer interactions rather than encouraging frequent contacts of one person to another. Another negative impact of social networking technology is on interpersonal skills. It is a common sense to handle tough conversations such as breakup or getting fired in person. That being said, many opt for delivering the message online, avoiding the nerve-wracking feeling of telling someone bad news. In fact, the quality of decreasing conversations are suffering as well due to the prevalence of social networking. 
In conclusion, I believe that the negative influences of social media to people’s relationships overshadow the advantages it might bring. Therefore, moderate use of this modern communication tool is advisable. 
(291 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
face-to-face communication: giao tiếp tận mặt, giao tiếp trực tiếp geographical barriers: những rào cản địa lý 
like-minded people: những người có tư tưởng giống nhau counter-intuitive: gây ra tác động phản lại tính thấu hiểu 
 	 
Sample essay 92 
Improvements in health, education and trade are essential for the development of poorer nations. However, the governments of richer nations should take more responsibility for helping the poorer nations in such areas. Discuss these views and give your own opinion. 
Today’s world has been divided into developing and industrialized countries where the main difference between them is the amount of money that governments apply in important sectors such as education, health and commerce. Most of the poorer nations are buried in debts as a result of their unbalanced finances which are reflected in a poor health care, an unstructured education system and a weak international trade. This vicious cycle will continue indefinitely unless wealthier nations show interest in minimizing the worldwide economic differences, as well as taking more responsibility for assisting unfortunate countries. 
Most of the African countries live in inhuman conditions because of the extreme poverty, upheaval, hunger, disease, unemployment, lack of education and both inexperienced and corrupt administrations. The devastating consequences of the AIDS epidemic in those countries could improve if the infected populations receive free drugs to control the disease, have access to health professionals and get information on how to prevent its spread. But this can only be achieved through international help programs in which leaders of the world's richest countries donate medicine and also send doctors and nurses to treat and educate those in need. 
Moreover, most of the poor countries rely on selling agricultural products and raw material to rich nations and buying industrialized products from them which results in a huge financial deficit. Consequently, they borrow a significant amount of money from the World Bank to try to improve their broken economies, but sometimes the money disappears with no significant changes and they cannot even pay the interest to the bank. Regarding this issue, last year the G8, which is comprised of leaders of the eight richest nations, decided to forgive billions of dollars worth of debt owed by the world's poorest nations. In addition, they developed adequate loan programs to financially assist those countries. 
In conclusion, leaders of the industrialized countries play an indispensable role in assisting developing nations deal with essential areas such as health, education and trade. Also, their aid is the key to breaking the vicious cycle, which results in poverty and death. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng bury: chôn vùi 
unbalanced finance: nền tài chính mất cân bằng weak international trade: giao thương quốc tế kém vicious cycle: vòng quanh quẩn không lối thoát  
minimize the worldwide economic differences: giảm thiểu tối đa sự bất cân bằng giữa các nền kinh tế 
inhuman conditions: những điều kiện làm việc có hại cho con người international help programs: các chương trình hỗ trợ nhân đạo quốc tế financial deficit: thâm hụt tài chính  
loan programs: các chương trình cho vay 	 
Sample essay 93 
Even though globalization affects the world's economies in a positive way, its negative side should not be forgotten. Discuss both view and give your opinion. 
In the present age, globalization is playing increasingly important role in our lives. But in the meantime whether it is a blessing or a curse has sparked much debate. Some people argue the globalization has fundamentally beneficial influence on our lives while many others contend that it has detrimental effect as well. 
Convincing argument can be made that globalization not only plays a pivotal role in the development of technology and economy, but also promotes the exchange of cultures between different countries. To start with, it is the globalization that impelled many corporations to become an international group, thereby making contribution to local technology and employment. Specifically, when a multinational group establishes a factory in a developing country, the new equipment, the new management skill and the job vacancies are all in the best interest of local society. Moreover, people worldwide can know each other better through globalization.  
Admittedly, profit-driven globalization severely affected the young people. Today, in the metropolises in different countries, it is very common sight that teenagers are wearing NIKE T-shirt and Adidas footwear, playing Hi-pop music with Apple I pod and having KFC. The culture that took thousand years to form is just seems similar in these cities; it is looks like you can only distinguish them by their language. Meanwhile, in some developing countries, the existence of sweatshops is always the issue that concerned by WHOM. For instance, some reports show that some teenagers who are employed by Nike's contractor always stay in the factories that are filled with toxic gases over 14 hours a day, but they only work for fifty cents per hour. 
In summary, I would concede that globalization do come with some adverse effects. Despite that the benefits created by it far outweigh the disadvantages. Overall, I convinced that we should further promote globalization and meanwhile the local government should take some measures to combat culture assimilation and sweatshops.  
Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
play a pivotal role: đóng một vai trò cực kỳ quan trọng promote the exchange of cultures: thúc đẩy việc trao đổi văn hoá impel: khiến việc gì xảy ra 
profit-driven globalization: sự toàn cầu hoá hướng đến lợi nhuận distinguish: phân biệt 
sweatshop: nhà máy sản xuất nơi các công nhân bị bóc lột sức lao động culture assimilation: sự đồng hoá văn hoá 
 
Sample essay 94 
Some people think that people who choose a job early and keep doing it are more likely to get a satisfying career life than those who frequently change jobs. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 
It is argued that those who make early career choice and stick to it would probably experience greater job satisfaction than job-hoppers. I strongly disagree with this statements for the following reasons. 
First, the pursuit of a career path for an extended period of time would ensure financial stability, resulting in greater satisfaction. The interval between the last interview and a job offer or rejection can be intensely frustrating for every candidate. Job search fatigue can wear anyone down with the endless rounds of leads and interviews that never seem to go anywhere. In addition to a steady paycheck, holding down a job for years is a manifestation of loyalty and commitment. From an employer’s perspective, these are significant indicators of promotion among current staff. To a certain extent, the length of employment is closely linked to the opportunity to successfully move up/ climb the corporate ladder. 
However, advocates of jop jumpers would argue that those who stay with a job for a long time have less diverse skill sets and a relatively narrow range of knowledge. In 
contrast, one of the greatest advantages of regular job switch is that it allows one individual to gain valuable skills and knowledge in different environments and cultures. In today’s economy, this is equivalent to remain current and constantly updated in a highly competitive market. Furthermore, changing jobs can certainly be a path to higher salary. If one hops once in a while, their number of contacts expand following a bigger potential professional network and more career choice in the future. Thus, job hoppers could actually be in a much better negotiating positions when it comes to dealing a new job offer on account of their diverse experience and contacts across different industries. 
In conclusion, frequent job changers might have higher level of job satisfaction and brighter career prospectswhereas staying with a single job does not guarantee the same sense of fulfillment later in life. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng job-hopper: người nhảy việc 
experience greater job satisfaction: trải nghiệm sự hài lòng trong công việc cao hơn 
the pursuit of a career path: việc theo đuổi một con đường sự nghiệp financial stability: ổn định tài chính job search fatigue: sự mệt mỏi khi tìm việc 
a manifestation of loyalty and commitment: sự thể hiện lòng trung thành và sự gắn kết 
regular job switch: sự thay đổi công việc thường xuyên brighter career prospects: triển vọng công việc sáng lạn sense of fulfillment: cảm giác hài lòng 
 
Sample essay 95 
Some people think that good health is very important to every person, so medical service should not be run by profit-making companies. Do the advantages of private health care outweigh the disadvantages. 
In the hectic modern-day life, staying physically and mentally healthy is of paramount importance. While some people argue that medical care should be provided by private entities, I believe that the dominance of private hospitals and clinics pose more threats than benefits. 
To begin with, private sector is supposedly more efficient and responsive to patients’ needs because of market competition. In order to gain widespread popularity, private practices would employ well-qualified personnel and topnotch treatment facilities, attracting and retaining patients with competitive services. Consequently, by virtue of high-quality medical care and favorable staff’s attitude, patients often choose to bypass free public clinic and opt for private doctors. Another argument in support of private services is the relatively substantial funding compared to public ones. Bountiful financial resources would eventually result in research findings on medicine and treatment for acute health problems, from which patients are intended beneficiaries. 
On the other hand, advocates of public sectors have highlighted inequities in access to health care resulting from the inability of the poor to pay for private services. There have been cases of private healthcare institutions charging exorbitant fees for medical treatments. Sadly though, the government has little control over the quality and the amount private hospitals and clinics charge the patients. In this situation, citizens are left at the whim of healthcare providers who are mostly driven by profit motives, rather than serving the ailing mankind. Furthermore, there are also moral and ethical issues regarding doctors and nursing staff in private sector. Some physicians would prescribe brand-name medications based on the commissions from pharmaceutical companies. 
In short, even though they offer better service and more cutting-edge medical equipment than their public-sector counterparts, negative aspects of the private providers such as overcharge and unethical staff overshadow the advantages. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
well-qualified personnel: nhân sự chất lượng cao 
top-notch treatment facilities: những thiết bị y tế hàng đầu bypass free public clinic: bỏ qua các phòng khám công miễn phí opt for private doctors: lựa chọn bác sĩ tư 
acute health problems: những vẫn đề về sức khỏe khó chữa moral and ethical issues: những vấn đề về đạo đức 
inequities in access to health care: sự bất công trong việc tiếp cận với hệ thống chăm sóc sức khỏe 
charge exorbitant fees: tính phí cao cắt cổ have little control over: có ít sự kiểm soát đối với 
 
Sample essay 96 
People should look after their health for personal benefits, rather than a duty for a society. What extent do you agree or disagree? 
In the hectic modern-day life, people are increasingly leaning towards a healthier lifestyle. However, whether being health-conscious is for the sake of one individual or for the benefit of society at large is open to debate. In my opinion, I reckon that not only staying healthy would do good to oneself but it also indicates the duty of every citizen. 
To begin with, one’s mental and physical condition is inextricably linked to their life quality. In essence, those who maintain a good overall health are capable of performing their tasks more effectively than physically weaker counterparts. In other words, a person’s well-being at the grass-roots level provides the foundation for building wealth and reaching desirable financial status. Additionally, a diseasefree body allows people to live life to the fullest, experiencing what life has to offer around you. To illustrate this, one can not participate in extreme sports such as bungee jumping or skydiving if their fitness level is not qualified. 
On the other hand, each citizen should consider taking care of their health a responsibility to sustain communal health. Take the outbreak of EBOLA and SARS as a vivid illustration of a single patient infecting a disproportionate number of contact. This is an important wake-up call for ignorant members in every community. In order to prevent and control the super spreading of emerging viruses, concerted effort of the authority and each inhabitant of great importance. Furthermore, a strong and healthy labour force plays a pivotal role in the economic growth of a nation. Consequently, a thriving country with a steadily rising budget would allocate necessary resources to improve the welfare system, ensuring equal access quality health care to all. 
In short, human resource is the most valuable asset of a country. Therefore, a healthy community calls for collective actions, in which all the sectors - the local government, individual citizens as well as other groups work together for a common purpose. Staying healthy both physically and mentally can do good to each person and the community as a whole. 
(339 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
health-conscious: ý thức về sức khỏe inextricably linked to: liên hệ mật thiết với 
physically weaker counterparts: những đồng nghiệp có sức khỏe kém hơn disease-free body: cơ thể khỏe mạnh, không bệnh tật live life to the fullest: tận hưởng cuộc sống trọn vẹn nhất sustain communal health: duy trì sức khỏe cộng đồng 
the outbreak of EBOLA and SARS: sự bùng phát dịch EBOLA và SARS concerted efforts: những nỗ lực chung welfare system: hệ thống chăm sóc sức khỏe 
 
 
Sample essay 97 
Parents often give children everything they ask for and do what they like. Is it good for children? What are the consequences when they grow up? 
Modern parents are giving into children’s demands and buy them all the latest toys and gadgets. I would argue that on no account can this parenting style bring any benefits for kids in the long run. Worse still, this negative education would cause detrimental consequences when they reach adulthood. 
First, over-indulgence can be harmful to young children, both socially and developmentally. When kids are provided with the latest must-have items, they are less likely to grasp the notion of sharing or appreciation for their parents’ affection. Eventually, they interpret negative behaviours such as whining or begging as a way to manipulate others. In addition, little do the young ones comprehend the value of hard- earned money if adults keep showering them in spending splurges. Consequently, spoilt kids can become insensitive to the needs of others, are prone to temper tantrum and have trouble deferring gratification. 
On the other hand, instant gratification could lead to adverse consequences in the future. Children who are spoiled do not have to learn responsible behaviours. Nor do they understand the concept of boundaries as adults and can develop problems such as gambling, overeating or drinking. Lacking in emotional maturity and having poor problem-solving skills, these adults might flounder and become unhappy with their lives. Furthermore, as over-indulged and over protected kids do not grasp the lesson of giving and taking in a relationship, they can have difficulty in establishing and maintaining meaningful friendships. 
In short, sometimes effective parenting skills involve resisting the desire to give kids whatever they want. Indeed, spoilt kids can lack life skills necessary to successfully negotiate the demands of adulthood given that their troubles have always been tackled by parents’ money. 
(279 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
over-indulgence: sự nuông chiều quá mức 
latest must-have items: những món đồ mới nhất, hot nhất negative behaviours: những thái độ tiêu cực grasp the notion of: hiểu được khái niệm của... 
comprehend the value of hard-earned money: hiểu được giá trị đồng tiền lack of emotional maturity: thiếu sự trưởng thành về cảm xúc concept of boundaries: khái niệm về giới hạn 
establish and maintain meaningful friendship: phát triển và duy trì những tình bạn có ý nghĩa 
effective parenting skill: kỹ năng làm cha mẹ hiệu quả 
 
 	 
Sample essay 98 
As the number of cars increases, more money has to be spent on road systems. Some people think the government should pay for this. Others, however, think that the users should cover the costs. Discuss and give your opinion. The growing density of cars call for road improvement scheme. 
While some people argue that it is the government’s responsibility to pay for road construction, I believe that car users should be charged for the service. 
To start with, there are some arguments put forth in support of the government’s spending on road building and maintenance. First, an efficient road transport system plays a pivotal role in ensuring smooth traffic flow, giving a boost in trade activities within the country and economic growth at large. For example, modern road infrastructure has a crucial part to play in the rapid development of major cities in the world such as New York or Paris. Furthermore, the convenience and safety of citizens should be of paramount concern of the authority. Therefore, each level of government is obliged by law to provide and maintain the national road network such as local roads, bridges or foot paths. 
However, I strongly support the latter opinion that car commuters should cover the cost of road infrastructure. Compared to walking or cycling which leave little visual damage on road, cars definitely take up more space on city streets, and high demand for car use in everyday life causes road deterioration at an increasingly fast rate. For this reason, roadbuilding and expansion mostly facilitate drivers so that they can travel safely and smoothly. Besides, car owners normally have significantly higher income than others. Funding for new construction and repair, thus, is a form of lifting the financial burden on less fortunate ones in order that the community as a whole can enjoy a better living standard. 
In conclusion, despite the fact that the government is responsible for national affairs in general including road construction, I reckon that it is moral and legal duty of car users to pay for their regular road use and support poor individuals. 
(308 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
road improvement scheme: kế hoạch cải tạo đường xá road building and maintenance: việc xây dựng và duy trì đường xá efficient road transport system: hệ thống giao thông hiệu quả ensure smooth traffic flow: đảm bảo luồng giao thông trơn tru modern road infrastructure: cơ sở hạ tầng giao thông hiện đại car commuter: những người di chuyển bằng ô tô take up more space: chiếm nhiều không gian hơn cause road deterioraiton: gây ra việc xuống cấp đường xá road expansion: mở rộng đường the financial burden: gánh nặng tài chính  
 
Sample essay 99 
Space travel has been possible for some time and some people believe that space tourism could be developed in the future. Do you think it is a positive or negative development. 
Space tourism industry is officially open for business, and tickets are sold at scarily exorbitant prices. However, the growing trend of paying a visit to outer space is open to debate. From my perspective, this novel form of travel offers more benefits than drawbacks. 
To begin with, a holiday beyond the stratosphere is an eye-opening experience for travellers. Since the dawn of time, it has been an intangible desire to explore and challenge the boundaries of what we know and where we have been amidst this vast universe. The possibility of being able to travel to space would not only satisfy one’s curiosity but also enrich their knowledge to a great extent. In addition, such a dramatic shift in perception would make an individual learn to value the life on Earth, raising self-awareness in protecting our Mother Nature. Therefore, space travel should be made equally available to ordinary members of the public. 
On the other hand, opponents of space tourism argue that this extravagant service is limited to professional astronauts and top one percent of the population who own the majority of the world’s wealth. This may be true given the small customer base and during the pioneering phase. That being said, growing demand accompanied by the development in orbital facilities will pave the way for mass phase in which tickets to orbit cost less and the number of passengers per year expand quickly. 
Eventually, a boom in space tourism would induce job opportunities in every line of business - from construction to interior design and marketing. Once orbital flights are made on a regular basis, scientists and government agencies are motivated to reach new heights in space technology, achieving historic breakthrough such as finding evidence of life forms on other planets. 
In conclusion, developing space tourism is a challenging issue and it may take a long time to become an affordable service to all, rather than a pastime for the rich. However, I believe space tourism should be perceived as a positive trend as it can generate employment and provide thorough understanding of the universe. 
(344 words) Các cụm từ cần nhớ Chú thích từ vựng 
exorbitant prices: giá cao đến mức cắt cổ this novel form of travel: hình thức du lịch mới mẻ này an eye-opening experience: một trải nghiệm giúp mở rộng tầm mắt an intangible desire: một đam mê vô hình 
a dramatic shift in perception: một sự thay đổi lớn về nhận thức raise self-awareness: tăng ý thức cá nhân extravagant service: dịch vụ đắt đỏ small customer base: lượng khách hàng nhỏ pave the way for: mở đường cho 
 
Sample essay 100 
Some people think it is more important to spend money on roads and motorways than on public transport systems. To what extent do you agree? 
Whether the government budget should be invested in traffic infrastructure or public transport systems is open to debate. In my opinion, each has substantial contribution to the society; and therefore should receive equal fundings. To start with, better road quality would have an instant positive effect on the daily commute of citizens. In developing countries, it is relatively more convenient to travel by private vehicles in lieu of waiting for buses and trains with restricted routes and schedules. However, the staggering number of cars, motorbikes and scooters has led to one of most the aching issues in downtown areas which is urban traffic congestion in downtown areas. A feasible measure to this matter is that the authority should spend money on expanding road capacity and implement road improvement scheme. As a result, there will be more space for a larger volume of traffic and safer roads for all inhabitants. On the other hand, state funding for public transport is another radical resolution to the increasing traffic density. Take the metro systems in Hanoi which are currently under construction and projected to be in operation by 2020. Beside road building and maintenance, major cities like Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh city invested a huge chunk of money in its metro projects to cope with heavy congestion and frequent traffic accidents. Moreover, better public transport system would create a major lifestyle shift, encouraging people to give up their private vehicles. In other words, promoting the use of public transport would dramatically alleviate air pollution particularly in emerging economies. In short, I believe that similar amount of money should be allocated to road and public transport to ensure smooth traffic flow. 
Các cụm từ cần nhớ
dasdsad ad sadas dasd asd
